Block Drafts from a Fireplace

Steps
Method 1
Operating a Chimney Damper
1
Hire a professional to install a damper if you don’t have one. A damper rests inside of or on top of your chimney and prevents drafts from coming down the chimney. Since improper installation could result in a chimney fire or chimney blockage, hire a professional service.[1]
A top damper sits on top of the chimney and has a cord that runs down the length of the chimney. Top dampers can also protect against animals getting into your chimney.
A throat damper sits just above the area the fire is lit and requires more work to install.
2
Pull the lever or cord to open and close the damper. The cord or lever be on the top or side of the fireplace. The position of the damper control will depend on the which damper you have installed. Pay attention to which position is open and which position is closed when the damper is installed.[2]
3
Open the damper before you light a fire. If you fail to the open the damper before you light your fire, smoke or gas could build up inside your home. If you see or smell smoke or gas, open the damper as soon as you can.[3]
If you lit the fire and forgot to open the damper, use pliers or an oven mitt to pull the lever so you don’t burn yourself.
To help clear the air in your home, open a few windows.
4
Close the damper after all the embers are burnt out. Make sure your fire is completely out or else residual smoke could fill your home. When the embers are cold to the touch, pull the cord or lever to close the damper. Keep the damper closed when the fireplace is not in use.[4]
5
Wait 5 minutes before closing the damper on gas fireplaces. This allows time for any unburned excess gas to escape without it entering your home.[5]
Method 2
Covering the Fireplace with a Draft Guard
1
Measure the width and height of the fireplace opening. Use a tape measure so you can determine what size draft guard you need.[6]
2
Purchase a draft guard online or in store. Once you find the measurements, make sure you buy a guard that is at least the size of the opening. Buy a guard that is at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) larger on each side of the hole so you have some wiggle room.[7]
Draft guards are sold in hardware stores or online.
Buy a guard in a color that accents the inside of your house.
3
Unfold the guard and place it over the hole. Place the guard so it’s flush with the opening of your fireplace. The guard is sturdy enough to stand on its own and will block any draft coming down your chimney.[8]
Keep the guard over your fireplace whenever you aren’t using it.
4
Remove the guard and fold it flat when you want to use the fireplace. The guard folds flat for compact storage when you want to light a fire. Stand it next to the fireplace or hide it underneath a piece of furniture so it’s not in the way.[9]
Once the fireplace is cool again, place the guard over the hole.
Method 3
Installing a Chimney Balloon
1
Purchase a chimney balloon. Chimney balloons are reusable and inflatable plastic pieces that fit inside your chimney to block any drafts. They are easy to use, but only if you have access to the interior of your chimney.[10]
Chimney balloons can be purchased from online retailers.
2
Inflate the balloon partially so it resembles a floppy pillow. Blow air into the plastic tube attached to the handle of the balloon. A few breaths should be enough to spread the balloon out. This helps you work with the balloon so it fits easily into the chimney.[11]
3
Place the balloon in the chimney flue. Take the balloon by the handle and hold it up to the opening of your chimney above the main firebox. The balloon should be parallel to the opening so it fills the entire area.[12]
If you need to make the balloon fit better, push the corners of the balloon up into the chimney with your fingers.
4
Blow up the balloon until it holds firmly in the chimney. Hold the balloon by the handle as you blow into the plastic tube. Make sure the balloon holds tight once you inflate it. After it is inflated enough to fill the chimney, close the valve on the handle.[13]
Remove the plastic tube so it doesn’t hang down in your fireplace.
5
Remove the balloon before you light a fire. The balloon needs to be removed before you start a fire so smoke or gas doesn’t fill your home. Chimney balloons have a fail-safe if you forget to remove them and will deflate when it’s heated.[14]
Keep a reminder card or tie something to the handle of the balloon so you don’t forget it’s there.
Reinflate the chimney balloon once the chimney is cold. Place the balloon back into the chimney so it fits firmly. Chimney balloons can be reused as long as it holds air. If it has a leak, replace the balloon.[15]
