Categorize Serial Killers

Steps
Part 1
Understanding the Basic Terminology
1
2
Discover the history of the term. The term serial killer dates back to ancient times; this kind of crime is not a uniquely American phenomenon. Research conducted in the 1900s by European Dr. Richard von Kraft-Ebing performed some of the first ‘’documented’’ research into both violent and sexual offenders.[2]
Dr. Kraft-Ebing published a textbook entitled “Psychopathia Sexualis”, which documented cased studies of sexually based murders and homicide.
3
Realize that serial killing itself goes back to the first historical recordings. Roman Gladiators, executioners of the medieval times and Hessian mercenaries can all be classified as serial killers.
Part 2
Using Common Categorizations
1
Start with learning about the Thrill Seeker.[3] This offender kills for the thrill alone, while trying to outsmart authorities for their own amusement. They may be considered either organized or unorganized in their thought processes.
They like to keep detailed records of their kills and typically use weapons or rape their victims before killing them.
The thrill seeker can become hedonistic. That is, they believe that the most important thing in life is the pursuit of pleasure.
Jeffrey Dahmer is an infamous Thrill Seeker. His reign of terror occurred between 1978 and 1991; he killed 17 men during this period. He would pick his prey from malls, gay bars and bus stops. He then lured them to their death with promises of sex or money. He provided alcoholic beverages laced with sleeping pills, then proceeded to strangle his victim to death. He kept body parts as souvenirs.[4]
2
Learn about the Mission-Orientated Serial Killer.[5] The mission-oriented killer feels that they are helping society out by getting rid of certain types of people.
Typically their victims are gay, lesbian, prostitutes, drug dealers or those of different religious denominations.
These killers mistakenly feel they are doing the world a favour and in return, the world is grateful for their help.
For example, Joseph Paul Franklin was a Mission Oriented Killer. He held a compulsive, pathological hatred for both Jews and African Americans. In the year between 1977 to 1980, paying tribute to his hero, Adolf Hitler, he carried out 22 murders in a bid to start a race war. He was executed for his crimes in November of 2013.[6][7]
3
Consider the Visionary Serial Killer.[8] These killers may be delusional, such as believing that they are someone else or receiving orders from a higher power (like God or the Devil). They may have a psychotic disorder that causes delusions or hallucinations.
Most people with psychotic disorders are neither violent nor dangerous, especially if they are getting treatment.[9] They are more likely to be victims of violence, not perpetrators.[10]
Only about 1% of serial killers have psychotic disorders (which is about the same percentage as the regular population).
David Berkowitz, known as the “Son of Sam” killer, killed six people with a .44 calibre revolver, and wounded seven others in the summer of 1976. He believed that a demon was speaking to him through his neighbour’s dog. New York City was terrorized as Berkowitz would send letters to police and the press, taunting them with promises of more killings. He was captured in August of 1977, confessed to the killings and was later sentenced to 25 years to life on each count. In all likelihood, he will never get out of jail.[11]
4
Gain insight into the Power and Control Serial Killer.[12] A power and control killer enjoys watching the suffering, pain and terror of the screaming victim.
This type is an organized killer, and is often a victim of child abuse, leaving them to feel inadequate or powerless as adults.
Often times, they sexually abuse victims, though their actions are not motivated by lust. The abuse (or rape) is used to dominate the victim.
An infamous example of the power and control killer is Ted Bundy. He was arrested in 1978, after having murdered at least 30 women. He would kidnap, then sexually assault his victim. In 1989, he was sent to the electric chair to pay for his crimes.[13]
5
Learn about the Black Widow.[14]Black Widow is the term often adopted for the female serial killer. This woman, typically victimized by a husband, boyfriend or former lover, will kill for financial gain.
Use of poison or a drug overdose is a common method of killing for this type of serial killer.
Captured January 1991, Aileen Wuornos was executed in 2002 for the killing of seven men. She stole personal belongings and the cars of the men she killed. She ended up pawning some of these items, which is how she was eventually caught. Police caught up with her after crashing one of the stolen vehicles. Her fingerprints were already in the police database for previous prostitution arrests.[15]
Between the years of 1900 and 2010, there were a total of 4,743 serial killings internationally, where the killers were caught and identified. It was found that an overall average 11.4% of the serial killers during this period were committed by a woman, with the greatest averages occurring between 1900 to 1929.[16]
6
Recognize an Angel of Death or Mercy Killer.[17] This category of serial killer is largely found in the medical profession. While an angel of death or mercy serial killer is typically a woman, there are male killers who fall into this category.
The killer may claim that it is an act of mercy or compassion (regardless of whether their victims had a chance at recovery, or may have wanted to continue living). The method of killing is typically a poison.
Charles Edmund Cullen was a nurse in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. He murdered as many as 40 patients by overdosing them with drugs, his defense being that they were done out of mercy. While he was confirmed to have killed 29 patients, estimates of upwards of 400 deaths were thought to be performed by his hand. He was sentenced in 2006 to over 12 life sentences.[18]
Part 3
Understanding Subcategories and Related Terms
1
Understand the Spree Killer. This individual will kill again without taking a break or pause in between.[19]
2
Recognize the Mass Murderer. Mass murderers kill large groups of people at one time. The only reason is for their own personal enjoyment.
3
Learn to recognize a Lust Killer. This killer will hurt their victims in order to produce sexual arousal in themselves.
4
Note Group Killers. When a kill is the result of group killer, it is typically related to a kill club or resulting from the actions of a cult. The killer has to perform a murder as an initiation into the group.
5
Differentiate between the organized and disorganized killer. While either of these types may exhibit any of the above characteristics, the method of execution can differ.[20]
Being the most difficult to capture, the organized serial killer is meticulous in the planning and execution of their crime. They may keep their potential target under surveillance for some time, getting to know their habits. When they choose to act, they gain some sort of relationship with their target, for example, finding a way to employ their sympathy. Once this is complete, they take the victim to another location to commit their kill.
The disorganized serial killer will take advantage of opportunity. They rarely have a plan in place, often taking no steps to cover up their crime. This kind of killer often has a low IQ, has no close family or friends, and is very antisocial. They tend to move between cities and states to commit their crimes, in an effort to avoid capture.
6
Know what it means to collect a "souvenir". Many serial killers like to take a souvenir. This allows them to recapture memories of their crime. It can be anything from a piece of jewelry to a body part of their victim.
Similarly, a trophy is an object that the killer picks up, typically to add to a shrine or collection of tokens from their past crimes.
Part 4
Understanding FBI Analysis and Classifications
1
Review the current FBI publication on serial killers. The National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime, in conjunction with the Justice Department in the US published a study entitled Serial Killers: Pathways for Investigations in 2015. Their breakdown is a little different from how some shows, analysts, and pop psychology outlets categorize serial killers. The murderers in their study were classified according to:[21]
the motive for the crime
how the offender gained access to the victim
any relationship between the offender and the victim
the disposal of the body
2
Learn how they classify the motives. The motives for serial killings were divided into five categories:
Sexual cases were murders that involved any kind of sexual activity, no matter how subtle.
Anger can result in hostility, jealousy or the act of seeking revenge against a particular person or group. The crime can also be committed against a random target, who just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Mental illness, though not technically a motivation, covers cases where the offender may have a psychiatric condition and be suffering from symptoms of their disorder.
Killing for financial gain or profit can define the killing of someone the offender does not know.
Any motive that does not fall into any of the above categories are classified as other.
3
Consider access to the victim as a means of categorization. The FBI report covers several different options:
Offenders can use a ruse to trick or con their victims into letting their guard down.
A blitz attack can occur when there the offender attacks without warning, with no verbal communication.
A surprise attack describes when the offender times his confrontation to an event, location or circumstance.
4
Explore the relationship between the offender and the victim. The FBI categorizes serial killers according to several relationship possibilities:
There is the stranger relationship, where neither the offender nor victim had previously met.
The targeted stranger situation occurs when the offender knew the victim, but the victim did not know the offender.
An acquaintance attack is when both parties are slightly familiar with each other, perhaps from their neighbourhood, or through a common contact. Alternatively, it could also be a situation where the two are well acquainted with each other.
The category is considered relative/familial when the relationship between the victim and offender includes blood relatives, blended family members and extended family members.
5
Learn about classification by the disposal of the body. The FBI split this into two distinct categories:
The first category includes bodies that were dumped or concealed after being removed from the murder scene.
A dumped body typically appears in a public place and shows that the offender was not concerned with the victim being discovered.
A body is concealed when the offender hides the body for a number of reasons, most typically to delay the discovery. The concealment of the body was divided into three scenarios: left on the ground, buried in a grave and found in a body of water.
When the body is left at the scene of the crime, this falls into the second category. The bodies are discovered as is or concealed.
The discovery of the body as is is defined as finding the body at the site where the crime took place.
The body is concealed when it is, again, moved typically to an isolated location, to delay discovery and possibly destroy evidence.
