Draw Levi Ackerman from Attack on Titan

Steps
Method 1
Drawing a Close-Up
1
Draw a circle, with a vertical line going through the middle of it. The line should extend a little bit past the circle. This creates guidelines for the head and face.
2
Draw a line, similar to a rounded ‘L,” from the middle of the left edge of the circle extending towards the bottom of the vertical line. The curve should be away from the circle. Repeat on the right side, and then the jaw will be finished.
3
Add a slightly curved, horizontal line in the middle of the circle, extending from the top of the left side of the jaw to the right. Draw a shorter version of the previous line, and the climax of the curve should touch the bottom of the circle. Then, draw an even shorter version of the previous line. The final line should be in the middle of the lower half of the jaw. This will give guidelines for the face.
4
Draw two lines, each slightly more inwards than the end of the last horizontal line in the previous step. They should extend a little bit past the bottom of the jaw, then curve slightly away from the face. That is the neck.
5
Draw the left shoulder by drawing a horizontal line towards the edge of the paper. The line should not reach the end of the paper; instead, end the line about an inch and a half from the edge of the head. At the end of the line, draw a small curve downwards. Repeat on the right side, only instead of drawing the line towards the left side, draw the line towards the right side of the paper.
6
Draw the top half of the Survey Corps jacket. It is a leather, long-sleeved, cropped jacket, with two breast pockets. The jacket also has epaulets. It is fairly simple to draw, especially with a reference. The Survey Corps logo is a pair of wings, the right one dark blue, and under the left, white wing. It's on top of a grey shield cut into four. Erase the shoulder lines that should be covered by the jacket.
7
Draw Levi's cravat and button-down shirt. A cravat is a neck scarf, and to draw his, draw a piece of fabric, and it should end at the top of the breast pockets. The fabric looks like it falls loosely, but the top part should look like it is folded over, like a napkin on a railing. Starting on the middle bottom section of the cravat, draw a vertical line down to where you want to end the drawing. On the right side, draw a button at the same height as the center of the vertical line.
8
Start Levi's face with his eyes. Draw a small, straight line on the right side of the face. It should be in the middle of the top and middle guideline. That is the top eyelid Then, draw a slanted line, starting from the outermost part of the top eyelid. It should end at a third of the top eyelid, a little bit below the top eyelid. Next, starting from the end of that line, draw a horizontal line towards the start of the top eyelid. That line should end slightly before the start of the top eyelid. That is the bottom eyelid. Levi's iris is small, and should not touch the bottom eyelid.
Repeat on the other side for the left eyelid, but draw it the opposite way so that it is facing the correct way.
Add small lines slightly above the top and bottom eyelid to show age and tiredness, since Levi is older than 30, and doesn't sleep a lot.
9
Accomplish Levi's condescending look by drawing a short, horizontal line above the outer edge of the top eyelid. Then, starting from the inner corner of the line we just drew, draw a slightly slanted line downwards towards the inner corner of the eye. It should end a little bit above the top inner corner of the eyelid.
Draw a little curved line a littler further from the inner edge of the eyebrows to add more detail to the condescending look.
10
Draw Levi's nose by creating a slightly curved line towards the middle guideline. It should start in the middle of the face, at the height of the inner edge of the right eyebrow, then curves slightly downwards until it ends barely past the middle guideline. At the bottom of the line, draw a short, slightly diagonal line going inwards to the middle. Once it reaches the middle, curve it to travel vertically down the face slightly. Then, on the left side of the nose, at the level of the bottom, draw a small nostril.
You can make the nose go the other way as well.
11
Start by drawing a thicker line, curving away from the nose. This line should be in the middle of the last guideline, making the top lip of Levi's usual frown. Then, on each side, draw a thick, horizontal line going towards the edge of the face. It should be tilted slightly downwards, and each line ends at the same spot as the inner iris of each eye. That makes the mouth. Then, under the center of the top lip, draw an upside-down triangle, whose base is curved like the top lip. That creates the bottom lip.
12
Start Levi's undercut by drawing a 'M' shape slightly to left on his forehead. In each curve of the 'M,' add small, horizontal zig-zag shapes. The edges of the 'M' should be lengthened to right above his eyebrow, then pulled back up, like there was a stretched 'V' on either side of the 'M.'
13
Draw the ends of his hair by continuing the "stretched 'V's" all the way to the edge of his head.
The lengths can vary in width and length, though it should stay above the middle of the eyes, and around the same length.
14
Finish Levi's hair with a part where the middle point of the 'M' is. The top of the hair leading to the point should be curved with the head, but slightly above it.
15
Erase the horizontal and vertical guidelines. You don't need them anymore since your outline is finished.
16
Refine the lines, smoothing them out. Adding more details can also help your drawing look more professional.
17
Color as you desire. If you would like to leave the drawing without any color, that's fine too.
Method 2
Drawing a Full Body
1
Draw a circle, with a vertical line going through the middle of it for the head, at the top of your paper. This will be the guidelines for the head and face.
2
Add guidelines for your body. You can either make it complex or simple.
The more guidelines, the more you understand where you want everything to be, but it could be more confusing when inking.
The body is about seven-and-a-half heads tall.
3
Start outlining the body. Don't worry about the hair or uniform as that will be done later.
If you're drawing digitally, draw the outline on a different layer to easily erase mistakes.
4
Erase the unnecessary lines, and then add the eyes, eyebrows, fingers, and the smaller straps of the 3D Maneuver Gear harnesses.
5
Add more details, like the heels of the boots, belt buckles, and the Survey Corps logos.
You can add clothing folds or accessories, like more strands of hair, face lines, and pocket buttons.
The more details there are, the more professional it will look.
6
Color as desired.
You don't have to color your drawing.
Erase the guidelines if you don't need them anymore.
