Eat Quince

Steps
Method 1
Poaching Quince
1
Peel the quinces with a vegetable peeler. The yellow skin on quince is tough and waxy, like a tougher apple.[4] Using a standard vegetable peeler will help easily remove the skin.
When using the peeler, always pull away from the body to stop the peeler from jumping and cutting your skin.
2
Cut the quinces into quarters with a chef’s knife. Use a sharp knife as you cut through the core since it will be the toughest and most woody part of the fruit. Make sure the cutting board is secure on your counter or table so it will not slip as you cut the quince.[5]
Halve the quinces first and then cut the pieces into quarters from there.
Quinces may be difficult to cut due to their spongy and woody quality, so always have a firm grip on the knife handle.[6]
3
Remove the core and seeds. The inside of a quince will look similar to an apple, with a majority of the seeds in the core. Use a chef’s knife to cut the core away.
Quince seeds are poisonous for human consumption, so be sure they are all removed before proceeding.[7]
Cut areas like wormholes or dark spots with a small paring knife.
4
Prepare a poaching liquid of water, sugar, and honey. Fill a large saucepan with 4 cups (950 ml) of water, 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar, and 1/4 cup (85 g) of honey. Simmer the mixture and stir until the sugar has dissolved.[8]
Add additional flavors like anise or vanilla to enhance the flavors further!
5
Add the quince to the pot and bring it to a boil. When adding the quince, let the poaching liquid boil before turning the heat down to a low simmer. Trap any of the liquid that may evaporate by covering the pot with a lid.
6
Let the quinces simmer for 50 minutes until they are pink. As the quince cooks, it will change from a yellowish color to pink. After this time, the quince should be tender and the liquid will have become more syrupy.[9]
7
Serve the quince alone when finished. Strain the quince from the poaching liquid and serve warm. The tartness of the fruit will have now combined with the sweetness of the liquid.
To serve later, the quince can be refrigerated with the liquid for up to 1 week.
Pair with mild cheese or put the quince in a salad with almonds to further enhance the flavor![10]
Method 2
Making Membrillo (Quince Paste)
1
Peel and cut the quinces into quarters. Use a vegetable peeler to remove all of the skin from the quinces. Halve the quinces with a chef’s knife and then cut them into quarters.
Be sure to remove the cores and seeds from the fruit.
2
Place the quince in a large pot ⅔ full of water and bring to a boil. After the water begins to boil, reduce the heat to a simmer for 45 minutes. Cover the pot with a lid so a minimal amount of the liquid evaporates.
To ensure the quince is submerged throughout the poaching process, drop a small plate in the water on top of the fruit.
3
Drain the pot and put quince in the food processor for 1-2 minutes. Take the poached quince from the pot and puree them in the food processor until it is completely smooth. This should take around 2 minutes to complete.
4
Return the quince puree to the pot and add sugar and lemon juice. Using a wooden or plastic spoon, stir in the sugar and lemon juice. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium heat. After it begins boiling, turn the heat to low for 1 ½ hours, stirring occasionally.
In this time, the paste will thicken and change to have an orange or pink color.
5
Preheat the oven to 150 °F (66 °C). Make sure to use the center rack when cooking your membrillo so it cooks evenly on all sides.
6
Pour the paste into a baking pan and cook for 1 ½ hours. Add the mixture into an 8 x 8 inch (20 x 20 cm) baking pan lined with parchment paper. Smooth the top of the paste with the back of a spoon or a baking spatula. Place the membrillo in the oven and bake it for 1 ½ hours.
7
Allow the quince paste to cool completely and serve. Cut the paste into small squares to serve on the top of crackers, biscuits, or slices of cheese.[11]
You can store the paste in the refrigerator for up to 3 months in an air-tight container
Method 3
Baking Quince Upside Down Cake
1
Poach the quinces in white wine, sugar, and orange zest. Quarter the quinces and put them into a pot with the white wine and orange zest. Bring the water to a boil over medium heat, and then let it simmer on low heat for 50-60 minutes. Cook the quinces until it is tender and pink. Refrigerate the poached quince overnight in the liquid.
Make sure the quince pieces are completely submerged in the poaching liquid.
2
Preheat the oven to 350 °F (177 °C). Place one of the racks in the center position and allow the oven to heat up. Using the center rack will help get an even bake throughout the cake.
3
Cut the quinces into slices and line the base of the pan. Make 1⁄8 inch (0.32 cm) thick slices from the poached quince. Spray the pan with non-stick oil before placing the quince inside. Form layers of concentric circles in the bottom of the pan until it is completely covered. This will become the top of your cake.
Save the poaching syrup since you can drizzle it on the cake once it has been finished.
4
Mix the dry ingredients in a medium mixing bowl. Sift in the flour, and whisk it with all the other dry ingredients, minus the brown sugar. Once it has been thoroughly mixed together, set it aside for later use.
5
Beat the wet ingredients with a mixer for 2 to 3 minutes. On a medium setting, beat together the brown sugar, butter, vanilla extract, and honey until it is creamy and smooth.
Add the eggs one at a time, being sure to scrape the sides with a rubber spatula regularly to mix it completely.
6
Add the dry ingredients while mixing on low speed. Mix in the dry ingredients a little at a time so the batter has time to form.
Once all of the dry material has been added, turn the speed up to medium and mix until the batter is smooth.
7
Pour the batter into the cake pan. Use a rubber spatula to spread the batter all the way to the sides. Smooth the top of the cake so it lays flat.
8
Bake the cake for 40 minutes. Let the cake brown evenly. Bake until a tester comes out clean or until it springs back when touched with a finger.
Rotate the cake 180° after 20 minutes so it cooks on both sides.
9
Let the cake cool on a rack for 15 to 20 minutes while still in the pan. While the cake is still warm, run a knife around the edges and flip the cake onto the cooling rack. Let it cool completely.
10
Serve the cake with whipping cream. Put a dollop of whipping cream on top of the cake, and include some of the leftover poaching syrup to add extra sweetness.
