Keep Your Glasses from Fogging Up

Steps
Method 1
Protecting Your Lenses
1
Purchase an anti-fog product to treat your glasses at home. Many companies manufacture products specifically designed to prevent glasses from fogging. These are either a spray or gel, and when applied directly to your lens, will prevent fog by forming a barrier that protects against temperature change and moisture.[1]
Most products require you to spray both sides of the lens, let dry, and wipe clean with a soft, dry cloth. Some products suggest longer dry times, while others require the spray or gel be rinsed off prior to wiping. Check product packaging for specific directions.
2
Purchase anti-fog wipes for on-the-go protection. These pre-treated napkins are super convenient and easy to use. Simply wipe down both sides of the lens using the pre-packaged wipe. These wipes are made for only one use, so just throw it away when you're finished.
3
Invest in a professional anti-fog treatment for a more long-term solution. Check with your eye doctor about the availability and cost of applying a one-time coating to your lenses to permanently prevent fog. This option may be particularly useful when there are drastic and/or frequent temperature changes or if the fog creates a safety hazard.[2]
Be prepared to leave your glasses for a few days and spend between $50-$100.[3]
Method 2
Using Household Items to Prevent Fog
1
Apply shaving cream to your lenses to create a protective barrier. Before going out in the cold weather, blot a small amount of shaving cream to both sides of your lenses and rub in. Let the shaving cream dry before gently removing residue with a soft, dry cloth.
Some people even say that shaving cream works longer than store-bought products! [4]
2
Rub bar soap on your lenses to create a clear, protective layer. Apply a small amount, let dry, and gently remove residue with a soft, dry cloth. The soap works just as the shaving cream does and will leave your lenses clear and fog-free.[5]
3
Spit on your lenses if you are in a bind! You can put a bit of spit on both sides of your lenses and wipe off with a soft, dry cloth. Only try this option if you have no others, as your saliva may contain oils or other substances that could potentially harm your lenses.[6]
Method 3
Making Simple Adjustments
1
Pull your glasses away from your face. Your glasses trap heat and moisture when setting too close to your face or eyes, which increases the incidence of fog build up. Try moving your glasses further down your nose to allow for more air circulation and less fog.[7]
2
Check to make sure your clothing isn't obstructing your air flow. Items like scarves and high-collared coats can trap moisture and push it upwards, leading to fogging. Also, wearing lots of layers can increase your body temperature and perspiration, which may also contribute to your glasses fogging up.[8]
If you can’t avoid wearing this type of clothing, try unzipping your coat or letting your scarf hang open to allow for more air flow. Alternatively, try tucking the clothing under your chin so your breath can flow outward instead of up.
During exercise, try using a sweatband to soak up sweat and reduce perspiration.
3
Avoid storing your glasses in the cold weather. Putting cold glasses on a warm body makes for an even bigger fog effect with temperature change. Instead, keep your glasses inside the house (instead of your car) to help reduce fogging when you move from warm to cold spaces.
