Measure Liquids without a Measuring Cup

Steps
Method 1
Estimating Using Size Comparisons
1
Use an object as a reference point. If you are stuck without a measuring device, it can be useful to have some visual aids in your head as a reference for the correct amount. Here are some good ones to remember:
A teaspoon is about the size of the tip of your finger
A tablespoon is about the size of an ice cube
1/4 cup is about the size of a large egg
1/2 cup is about the size of a tennis ball
A full cup is about the size of a baseball, an apple or a fist[1]
2
Choose an appropriate vessel to pour your liquid into. Ideally, you would use your hands as they can be cupped to create a rounded shape. However, this may not be appropriate for sticky liquids. [2]Try to select a transparent vessel that you can easily imagine your visual aid just fitting into.
For example, if you are measuring a 1/4 cup, it may be useful to use a tall glass that an egg would just fit into. A wider glass, on the other hand, may be more appropriate for a 1/2 or full cup.
3
Place your vessel on a flat surface and bring yourself down to eye level. This will help you to clearly see the amount being poured. Pour the fluid slowly into your vessel.
When you think you may have the right amount, stop and compare it to the size of your visual aid.
Make adjustments to the amount in the vessel if necessary.
4
Take a look at the amount of fluid in the vessel and commit it to memory. This will make future estimations easier, as it provides you with a point of reference. [3] It is helpful to continue using the same vessels for the certain measurements (e.g. the tall glass again for a 1/4 cup).
Method 2
Using a Kitchen Scale
1
Use a kitchen scale to measure the correct amount of liquid. In general, it is fine to weigh your liquid using an ordinary kitchen scale, using water as the assumed density.[4]
Most liquids, such as milk and orange juice, will have a similar density to water. However, keep in mind that some liquids may be significantly denser (such as honey or syrup) so the reading may not be appropriate for these.
To provide greater accuracy, some kitchen scales give you the option to select different liquids, such as milk. The scale then calculates the volume based on the density of the selected liquid. If you have a scale with this feature, ensure that it is set to measure the correct liquid. [5]
2
Calculate the weight of your fluid. If you are using an ordinary scale, you will need to work out the correct weight for your liquid. It is worth remembering that one fluid ounce of water corresponds to exactly one ounce in water. This principle also applies to liters (1 milliliter of water is 1 gram in weight). [6]
Use this as your key metric when measuring your liquid. For example, if you need half a cup of water, it should weigh 4 oz or 125g.
3
Select a glass or container to use to measure your liquid in. Place your container on the scale, making sure it is in the center position.
Do not add any liquid to your container yet. It is important to have your container empty at this stage, as you will need to set your scale up to exclude the container’s weight from measurements. [7]
4
Calibrate your scale to exclude the container in measurements. Look for the button on your scale button labeled “tare” or “zero”.
Once this is pressed, the weight of your container should display as zero on your scale. This will ensure that the measurement of your liquid is accurate.[8]
5
Pour your liquid into your container. Do this slowly, pausing to take note of the weight. Stop pouring once your scale displays the weight or volume that you need. If you go over the correct amount, pour the excess into the sink.
6
Measure any additional liquids you need for your recipe. If you are using an ordinary scale and plan on mixing liquids together, you can measure these in the same container. Keep the container on the scale and calculate the new amount that you need by adding together the amounts of both liquids. Pour the new liquid into the container until you reach the correct combined amount.
Keep in mind that if you are using a kitchen scale that provides the option of measuring different liquids, you will need to change your settings and start a new measurement.
If you are measuring water and want to measure milk, for example, set aside your container of water, select the milk option on your scale and begin a new measurement with another container.
Method 3
Using Tablespoons and Teaspoons
1
Work out how many tablespoons you will need. An easy way to do this is to remember that one cup equates to 16 tablespoons. This can be used as a simple metric to calculate how many tablespoons you need.
For example, if you need half a cup, you would require 8 tablespoons of fluid.[9]
2
Use a tablespoon to measure out the liquid you need. Measure your liquid over a vessel to prevent a mess. Pouring slowly and steadily to avoid excess spillage into the vessel, fill your tablespoon with the liquid.
Transfer to the vessel and repeat until you have measured the amount you need in tablespoons.
3
Use a teaspoon to refine the volume. Some recipes may call for more precise measurements. In this case, you can use teaspoons to get the exact amount needed.
One teaspoon is equivalent to 1/6 of a fluid ounce or 4.7ml.
4
Commit the amount of fluid in the vessel to memory. This will help to develop your ability to estimate measurements.
If you are using a glass or plastic vessel may alternatively wish to use a marker on the outside of the vessel to indicate measurements. [10]This will save you re-measuring the tablespoon amounts in the future. For example, if you measured out a quarter of a cup (4 tablespoons), you would write “1/4” on the vessel.
