Reinvent Your Style Aesthetic

Steps
Part 1
Deciding on Your Look
1
Think about whether you want to completely reinvent your style aesthetic or whether you just want to reinvent part of it. When formulating your signature style, decide whether you want to completely change it up, or expand on your current wardrobe. Maybe you already have the classy aesthetic you want, but you just want to fine tune it and make it completely yours. Or maybe you’ve been dressing preppy all your life and you want to turn it around entirely and go for a more vintage, retro look.
Keep in mind that expanding on your current closet will be a lot cheaper and easier to do than buying a whole new collection of clothes. There are ways to make old clothes look completely new by altering, dyeing, or simply pairing them with different clothes.
If you leave school or work on Friday with a soft, pastel aesthetic and come back on Monday wearing ripped black jeans and combat boots, you can’t exactly expect no one to notice. If you are fine with completely turning it around like this and getting a few comments, great! But if you want the transition to be less abrupt, try changing your look over the summer holidays, or when you go to a new school or job.
2
Brainstorm new looks. Once you’ve decided whether you’re doing a complete style turn around or more of a subtle change, it’s time to decide what you’re final style should look like. To get some ideas, look at fashion magazines, websites, blogs, and personalities to get some inspiration. If you have no idea what you want, make a mood board of all the clothing that you like, and then look at the overall aesthetic of them when you see them together.
Most people are aware of the more obvious fashion “aesthetics” but try to think outside of the box a little so you don’t choose something too cliche. If you like a dark, grungy look, you can also combine that with some brighter colors, vintage band tees, and unexpected silhouettes.
If you like the look of a particular store, that’s a great start to base your look off of. But remember, if you buy all of your clothing from one store you risk looking like a walking mannequin. Besides, if you just blindly buy clothes from one shop, it’s not really your style. Look for similar stores to add some variety.
Think about movie characters you like the look of, and use sites to find some of the specific clothes they wear.
3
Make sure your chosen style is practical. Take into account the climate in the area that you live in and what activities you’ll usually be doing on a daily basis.
Make sure that your style translates into all the different occasions you may come across. You need to be able to have warm outfits, cold outfits, formal outfits, casual outfits, athletic outfits, and summer outfits that still never break your style aesthetic.
If you decide that, for example, your look is a very girly, fancy one, make sure that that will be sustainable all the time. You just won’t be able to wear heels every single day of your life, so you should make sure you also like the look of some cute flats.
Make sure it’s appropriate. A messy look with lots of rips or low cut clothing may not be appropriate for someone who is still in school, or just generally going somewhere nice or out in public
4
Make sure you love your new style aesthetic. People’s tastes change, and if after you’ve given your closet a makeover you realize that this is not how you want to present to the world, you’ll be in trouble. Think about whether you’ll still love this style in one or two years. If not, you may need to make your look a little more flexible, and focus it on basics and neutrals that you can change with jackets and accessories.
Part 2
Shopping for Your Style
1
Do a closet clear out. If you have things that you just know that you will never wear again, there is no point in keeping them. If they are still fairly new and of good quality, you can resell them on sites online that allow you to sell certain clothes that you don't want.
Know what to keep. Basics like neutral T-shirts, tank tops, basic jeans, pants, and sturdy jackets should stay. They can be incorporated into any style, and shouldn’t be wasted. Anything that already fits into your desired style or can be altered to should also stay.
2
Shop for essentials. It’s worth spending a little extra money on a responsible purchase that will last you awhile. Start shopping for things you know you will wear most often.
This will be different depending on your style. It could be a high quality leather or denim jacket, some cool sneakers, a couple pairs of cute skirts, nice jeans, or anything a little higher on the price range that is important to your look.
If you have your heart set on something that is a little over your budget, try looking through thrift stores or online reselling websites. This can save you a lot of money, and you could get something genuinely vintage or a brand name item for cheap.
Good quality does not always mean name brand. A good way to tell how well made an item is is to try things on and feel the material and stitching. Think about how well it will hold up to being washed and dried, as well as daily wear and tear.
3
Look for reasonably priced basics. You want to make sure you have enough clothes so that you’ll always have something clean to wear. Having lots of basics will also make it a lot easier for you to create different outfits every day.
Just like essentials, basics look different for every style. Generally however, some good basics are T-shirts that go with your style (color wise, or graphic tees) and bottoms that you like. You can buy the same bottoms in multiple colors and styles as long as you make sure that they are comfortable and look great. You should also have some tank tops and long sleeve tops for days when the weather calls for them. Owning some cute sweaters or light jackets can help you avoid wearing the same outerwear every day.
If your style is a little more formal, blouses, shirts, skirts, dress pants, and cardigans can constitute as basics as long as you wear them often.
4
Go for some adventurous pieces. No matter your style, you should always experiment with some more out there items. This will make your look feel less uniform and simple.
A great way to ease yourself into this is to take a look at some different necklines. Sweetheart, square, boat and off the shoulder necklines add a super cute, classy look to any style.
As for bottoms, a lot of people have a favorite cut of jeans that they go for every day. Try on some skinny, bootcut, boyfriend, or mom jeans to add a little variation to your everyday outfits. If you aren’t in the habit of wearing shorts, skirts, or dresses, try it out. You may find a new signature look.
5
Accessorize. This is optional, but if you like wearing jewelry, make sure you have some casual and formal earrings in both silver and gold, or other jewelry of your choice. Some necklaces and bracelets that are easy to pair with you style can also add a little pop to your look. For guys, try cool cuff links, watches, or bracelets.
Part 3
Putting Together Outfits
1
Organize your closet. It will be a lot easier to find certain pieces and put together cohesive outfits. Make sure everything is always clean (even if you shower if you’re wearing old sweaty clothes you’ll look and smell dirty) and neatly organized.
Hang by color. Try having one rack organized in rainbow order, and one rack with neutral such as grey, black, white, and beige.
You may also find it easier to have a separate area for coats and sweaters.
2
Don’t go overboard. A general rule when putting together an outfit is to center the look around one piece. Every time you put together an outfit, decide which one item you want to stand out most in your look and pick the rest of your outfit from there.
For example, if you plan to wear a very colorful windbreaker, make sure your bottoms are plain and that the shirt you’re wearing underneath isn’t too flashy. A super bold choice in all of these three categories will simply overwhelm your look.
The same rule goes for jewelry. If you are wearing large earrings, maybe don’t reach for the necklace and bangles as well.
Keep in mind that this is all personal preference. If you enjoy wearing lots of jewelry and bold outfits, go for it!
3
Think about silhouettes. If you want to wear an oversized jacket or sweatshirt, go for something a little tighter or shorter on the bottom. This helps balance it out, and stops you from becoming too overwhelmed in fabric.
If you feel that your shape is getting lost in an outfit, a crop top and high waisted pants can accentuate your waist. This also helps your legs look longer.
Even baggy sweatpants can look sleek if you pair them with a tight black top. It’s all about ratios.
Remember that you don’t have to “dress for your body type”. Just wear whatever you feel comfortable and confident in.
4
Learn about complimentary colors and try to apply them. Here are some classic cute color combinations. Not all of them may be your style, but they’re just here to give you some inspiration.
Denim and yellow
Denim and red
Light pink and light grey
Black and pink
Black and yellow
Light blue and grey
Dark green and black
Blue and yellow
Green and gold or silver
Red, white, and blue
You can also wear colors that accentuate to the color of your eyes for a more vibrant look.
5
Mix it up. Try not to do the same combinations all the time. For guys, it can get very easy to wear similar things each day. You can counteract this by making sure you have khakis, shorts, and dress pants as well as jeans. If jeans are truly your go-to, try buying them in multiple different washes. If you can, try to have a couple pairs of shoes you wear day to day. This makes you able to customize your outfits even more, as well as giving you some more variation. For girls, if you’ve worn jeans and a T-shirt 4 days in a row, you can mix it up as well. Some ideas are:
A T-shirt tucked into a denim skirt. A slightly more feminine version of the classic look. See above for some good colors to go with denim.
Trade your jeans for some other types of pants like cargo pants, flowy pants, straight leg pants or even sweatpants.
A slightly fancier top, a tank top, or a blouse, and black jeans.
A knit sweater and your favorite pair of denim bottoms.
6
Make sure you’re tidy. Before you leave, give your outfit the once over in the mirror. Is it on correctly? Are the pockets tucked in? Do your accessories match? Give it a quick roll with a lint roller, especially if any of your clothes are black or white. Good job! You have a great style, a great outfit and you’re ready to go. Remember that any look is made better by confidence!
