Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Find difference button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.
Both perspectives.

Phillips is a person.
Alex is a person.
thesis supervisor is an entity.
research scientist is an entity.

Note that "Phillips" is a masculine name.
Note that "Alex" is a masculine name.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology is an university.
Nanyang Technological University is an university.
Stanford University is an university.
Undergraduate degree is an entity.
Computer Science department is a department.
Cyber security is a technology.

xx is a person.
kk is an entity.
aa is an action.
uu is an university.
tt is a tool.
oo are tools.
ss is a technology.
vv is a variable.
ww is an entity.

If xx earns a master degree at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, then xx must be smart.
If xx studies at Nanyang Technological University, then xx must be smart.
If xx joins the Computer Science graduate program at uu, then xx must be interested in programming.
If xx develops software for ww, then xx must be interested in programming.
If xx wants to create tt that increase kk, then xx must be passionate.
If xx strives to improve ss, then xx must be passionate.
If xx generates research ideas, then xx must enjoy thinking.
If xx explores ideas, then xx must enjoy thinking.
If xx does not report to kk frequently, then kk is dissatisfied with xx.
If xx's ideas does not attract kk, then kk is dissatisfied with xx.
If xx does not publish ww, then xx is not a productive researcher.
If xx has problem writing ww, then xx is not a productive researcher.
If xx develops tt that helps ww all over the world, then xx makes meaningful contributions.

Show both perspectives.

First perspective.
Start story titled "Phillips' story".
Phillips earned an undergraduate degree and a master degree at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He joined the Computer Science graduate program of Stanford University.
He wants to create innovative tools that increase programming productivity.
But he joined a difficult research project that has less space for original contributions.
Phillips explored a lot of ideas.
However, Phillips's ideas did not attract his thesis supervisor.
In the first three years of his PhD, Phillips jumped from projects to projects.
Phillips did not publish any paper.
In the summer before his fourth year, he interned at Microsoft.
Phillips worked with a senior research scientist.
Phillips developed a tool that helped programmers all over the world.
Phillips published two papers with the research scientist.
More importantly, Phillips discovered a research direction that is in the intersection of his passion and the field's interest.
After going back to Stanford, he continued to work on those ideas and he implemented new systems.
He focused on producing results that he can publish.
He generated new ideas while he was chatting casually with friends.
He received important feedback from researchers after giving talks at other universities.
In a random conversation at a conference, a famous professor recruited Phillips as a post doc.
Finally, Phillips published five papers at Stanford University.
He graduated successfully and found a faculty job.
The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Alex's story".
Alex studies at Nanyang Technological University.
He strives to improve cyber security.
For one year, He has been developing software and algorithms.
He wants to make meaningful contributions.
He generated many research ideas.
Consequently, He did not start implementation.
He did not report to his thesis supervisor frequently.
He had problem writing the thesis.
The end.
