Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Learn concept button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.
Both perspectives.

Aviation experts are persons.
the captain is a person.
Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 is an entity.
Addis Ababa is an entity.
Boeing-737-MAX-8 plane is an entity.
anti-stall system is an entity.
Indonesia Lion Air os am entity.
Java Sea is an entity.
10 March 2019 is an entity.

xx, yy, and zz are persons.
vv, uu, and kk are variables.
mm and nn are entities.

If a Boeing-737-MAX-8 plane of mm crashed into uu on kk, then a Boeing-737-MAX-8 crashed.
If xx asks for permission to return to the airport, then xx must have realized some problems.
If xx notes that there were some abnormalities in the altitude of uu, then there are problem with uu's altitude.
If xx later identifies problems with vv, then there are problem with vv.
If uu's altitude continues to fluctuate, then uu's altitude is fluctuating.
If flight tracking data shows that the uu's altitude had fluctuated sharply, then there are problem with uu's altitude.
If uu seemed to be climbing and descending, then uu's altitude.
If xx asks to return after minutes, then xx must have realized some problems.

Show both perspectives.
// https://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-47605265

First perspective.
Start story titled "Indonesia Airline crash".
On 29 October 2018, a Boeing-737-MAX-8 plane of Indonesia Lion Air crashed into the Java Sea.
All 189 people on board died.
Aviation experts noted that there were some abnormalities in the altitude of Flight 610.
Three minutes later, the captain struggled to control the aircraft.
The captain asked for permission to return to the airport.
The plane descended to about 5,000 feet but its altitude continued to fluctuate.
Investigators later identified problems with the anti-stall system.
The system can prevent a plane not to point upwards at too high.
Preliminary investigations revealed a potential design flaw involving the automated MCAS system of the 737 MAX series.
The MCAS system repeatedly pushed the plane's nose down following takeoff.
The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Ethiopian Airline crash".
Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 was a Boeing-737-Max-8 aircraft.
On 10 March 2019, the Boeing-737-Max-8 took off from Addis Ababa.
It crashed and it killed all 157 people on board.
Flight tracking data showed that the aircraft's altitude had fluctuated sharply.
The plane seemed to be climbing and descending erratically.
The pilot reported difficulties and asked to return after minutes.
Following the second crash of the same model, airlines and authorities had grounded the operation of Boeing-737-Max-8 aircraft.
The end.

// https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_737_MAX
// https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_737_MAX#MCAS
