Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Find difference button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.
Both perspectives.

Maxwell speed distribution is an entity.
Probability distribution is an entity.
gas is an entity.
Entropy change is an entity.
Probability is an entity.
Volume change is an entity.
Proportional is an entity.
Log is an entity.
Principle is an entity.
Boltzmann's-principle is an entity.

body is an entity.
radiation is an entity.
Wien's Law is an entity.
Waves are entities.
Wavelength is an entity.

Somebody is a person.
We is a person.

xx, yy, and zz are entities.
mm is a person.
//  and zz is composed of randomly-moving point particles
If xx gives yy of particles' energy, then zz is seen as a system with energy.
If mm can calculate the xx of yy with zz, then mm derive the xx of yy from zz.
If the black-body spectrum shows the association between energy and yy, then the black body is seen as a system with energy.
// If mm derive the zz of xx from yy, then xx has a theoretical foundation in yy.
// If zz is the nth power of yy, then yy's exponent is n.

Show both perspectives.

First perspective.
Start story titled "Ideal gas".
An ideal gas is composed of randomly-moving point particles whose only interactions are perfectly elastic collisions.
The probability distribution of particles' energy is given by the Maxwell speed distribution.
Assume the volume of ideal gas has changed.
We can calculate the entropy change of ideal gas with Boltzmann's-principle.
One factor is Boltzmann's constant.
Another is log of volume change.
The exponent has value n.
The energy of ideal gas is discrete.
The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Black body".
A black body is an opaque and non-reflective body.
The black-body spectrum shows the association between energy of waves and each wavelength.
The energy a black body radiates are mostly invisible infra-red;
At room temperature, A black body appears black.
Assume the volume of high-frequency radiation has changed.
From Wien's Law, we derive the entropy change of the radiation.
One factor is Boltzmann's constant.
Another is log of volume change.
Exponent equals energy of radiation over quanta.
The end.
