Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Learn concept button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.
Both perspectives.

xx, yy, and zz are persons.
mm and nn are things.
vv and uu are variables.
ss and tt are animals.

appetites is an entity.
productivity is an entity.
pounds is a measure.
feet is a measure.
seventy-five is five.

Show both perspectives.

If xx produces twice as much as mm on nn, then the productivity of nn doubles the productivity of mm.
If ss eats half as much as tt, then the appetite of tt doubles the appetite of ss.
if xx eats vv in total, then the appetites total vv.
if xx weaves vv in uu, then the productivity totals vv.

First perspective.
Start story titled "Compensation to the farmer".
// 今有牛、马、羊食人苗。苗主责之粟五斗。羊主曰：“我羊食半马。”马主曰：“我马食半牛。”今欲衰偿之，问各出几何？
A cow, a horse, and a sheep ate the farmer's plants.
In total, they ate seventy-five pounds.
The farmer asked for compensations from the owners of the animals.
The owners measured the quantity eaten by their animals.
The sheep ate half as much as the horse.
The horse ate half as much as the cow.
Each owners will pay in proportion to the amount of plants eaten by his animal.
Calculate the amount of money charged to each owner.
The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Productivity of the weaver".

// 今有女子善织，日自倍，五日织五尺。问日织几何？
A girl is an expert weaver.
//Every day, the girl produces twice as much as the previous day.
On the second day, the girl produces twice as much as the first day.
On the third day, the girl produces twice as much as the second day.
On the fourth day, the girl produces twice as much as the third day.
On the fifth day, the girl produces twice as much as the fourth day.
She weaved five feet in five days.
Calculate the amount of clothes she weaves every day.
The end.
