Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Find difference button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.
Both perspectives.

Phillips is a person.
I am a person.
thesis supervisor is an entity.
research scientist is an entity.


Note that "Phillips" is a masculine name.

The Genesis Group is an entity.
Nanyang Technological University is an university.
Stanford University is an university.
computer science graduate program is an entity.
PhD student is an entity.
programs are research works.

xx is a person.
ss are research works.
yy is an entity.
aa is an action.
uu is an university.
vv is a variable.
kk is a variable.
tt is a variable.

If xx works at kk in vv before tt as yy, then xx is a researcher.
If xx continues to work on kk, then xx loves xx's research.
If xx continues to refine ss at uu, then xx loves xx's research.
If xx works at kk, then xx is a researcher.
If xx joins the computer science graduate program of uu, then xx is a PhD student.
If xx is a graduate student at kk, then xx is a PhD student.

Show both perspectives.
First perspective.
Start story titled "Phillips' story".
Phillips earned an undergraduate degree and a master degree at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He joined the Computer Science graduate program of Stanford University.

He wants to create innovative tools that increase programming productivity.
But he joined a difficult research project that has less space for original contributions.
Phillips explored a lot of ideas.
However, Phillips's ideas did not attract his thesis supervisor.
In the first three years of his PhD, Phillips jumped from projects to projects.

Phillips did not publish any paper.
Phillips worked at Microsoft as an intern in the summer before his fourth year.

Phillips worked with a senior research scientist.
Phillips developed a tool that helped programmers all over the world.
Phillips published two papers with the research scientist.
More importantly, Phillips discovered a research direction that is in the intersection of his passion and the field's interest.

After going back to Stanford University, he continued to work on those ideas and he implemented new systems.
Phillips focused on producing results that he can publish.
He generated new ideas while he was chatting casually with friends.
He received important feedback from researchers after giving talks at other universities.
In a random conversation at a conference, a famous professor recruited Phillips as a post doc.
Finally, Phillips published five papers at Stanford University.
He graduated successfully and found a faculty job.

The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "My story".

I study at Nanyang Technological University.
In 2018, I exchanged at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

I worked at the Genesis Group.
I developed a program that learns procedures from books.
Another program I created learns by asking an expert.
I continued to refine the programs at Nanyang Technological University.
After graduation, I will be a PhD student at the Genesis Group.
I need to graduate successfully.
The end.
