Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Learn procedure button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.

Both perspectives.

Alice is a person.
Bob is a person.
The battery, cover, and phone are entities.
The replacement battery is an entity.

xx, yy, and zz are entities.
vv is a variable.
uu is a variable.
aa is an action.

Start description of "Action-evoking goal".
 xx's wanting vv leads to aa.
The end.

If xx drinks coffee, then xx must want to become alert.
If xx washes yy, then xx must want to clean yy.

If xx forgot to take yy from zz, then zz contains yy.
// If xx contains yy and yy contains zz, then xx contains zz.
// If a washing machine contains xx, then xx becomes wet.
If a phone becomes wet, then the phone may not work.

If a xx's problem evidently is solved, then xx may be happy.

If xx removes the cover from yy, then xx must want to expose yy's parts.
If xx slides down the cover from yy, then xx must want to expose yy's parts.

If xx collects yy from zz, then xx must want to separate yy from zz.
If xx takes out yy from zz, then xx must want to separate yy from zz.

If xx inserts yy into zz, then xx must want to incorporate yy into zz.
If xx put yy in zz,  then xx must want to incorporate yy into zz.

If xx puts the cover on yy, then xx must want to attach the cover to yy.
If xx places the cover on yy, then xx must want to attach the cover to yy.

Show both perspectives.
First perspective.

Start story titled "Alice's story".
Alice washes her pants in a washing machine.
Alice forgot to take her phone from her pants.
The phone became wet.
It did not work.
Alice quickly removed the cover from the phone and she collected the old battery from the phone.
Alice purchased the replacement battery online.
The replacement battery arrived and she inserted it into the phone.
She puts the cover on the phone.
She recharged her phone for 4 hours.
Bravo! The phone worked again.
The end.




Second perspective.

Start story titled "Bob's story".
A client's phone did not work.
The client asked bob to change the battery of the client's Samsung phone.
Bob made coffee and drank it.
Bob got a replacement battery from the stock room.
Bob slid down the cover from the client's phone.
Bob takes out the old battery from the client's phone and put the replacement battery in the phone.
Lastly, he placed the cover on the client's phone.
// The problem is solved because the client's phone started working again;
The phone started working again; the client's problem is solved.
The client was happy.
The end.
