Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Learn concept button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.
Both perspectives.

Denmark is a country.
Hamlet is a person.
King Hamlet is a person.
Claudius is a person.
Ophelia is a person.
Laertes is a person.

Pride Lands is a country.
Pride Rock is a place.
Mufasa is a person.
Simba is a person.
Scar is a person.
Hyenas are persons.

Note that "Mufasa" is a masculine name.
Note that "Simba" is a masculine name.

xx, yy, and zz are entities.
vv is a variable.
uu is a variable.
aa is an action.
pp is a country.

If xx is the pp's king and yy is pp's prince, then yy is xx's son.
If xx is the pp's brother and yy is xx's son, then pp is yy's uncle.
If xx becomes the king, then xx is the king.
If xx succeeds yy as the king, then xx is the king.
If xx asks yy, then yy sees xx.

Show both perspectives.

First perspective.
Start story titled "Hamlet".

Hamlet is the prince of Denmark.
King Hamlet is the king of Denmark.
Claudius is the uncle of Hamlet.
King Hamlet was killed by Claudius.
Claudius succeeded King Hamlet as the king.

The ghost of King Hamlet asked Hamlet to revenge.
Since then, Hamlet pretended to be mad.
He refused to love Ophelia, his girlfriend.
Then, Hamlet arranged a show and proved that King Claudius was guilty.
Hamlet is resolved to kill his uncle.
Accidentally, Hamlet killed Ophelia’s father, so King Claudius exiled Hamlet to England.
In despair, Ophelia drowned herself.
Laertes is Ophelia’s brother.
Laertes challenged Hamlet to a duel.
Hamlet killed Laertes and King Claudius.
But he died from the poison of the blade of Laertes.

The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Simba".

Simba was the son of Mufasa.
Mufasa was the king of Pride Lands.
Scar was the brother of Mufasa.
Scar killed Mufasa and became the king.

Scar banished Simba from the Pride Lands.
Simba grew up happily with friends.
He met his childhood girlfriend, who told him to go back and bring peace.
But he did not want to go back.
One day, Simba saw the ghost of Mufasa, telling Simba to take the place at the throne as a true king.
Simba then decided to go back to the Pride Lands.
He forced Scar to explain what happened.
Scar admitted that he murdered Mufasa.
Simba banished Scar from the Pride Lands.
But Scar attacked Simba. Simba flinged Scar from the top of Pride Rock.
Scar was killed by the hyenas, who felt they were betrayed by Scar.

The end.
