Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Learn concept button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.
Both perspectives.

Denmark is a country.
Hamlet is a person.
King Hamlet is a person.
Claudius is a person.
Ophelia is a person.
Laertes is a person.

Hera is a person.
Heracles is a person.

xx, yy, and zz are persons.
vv is a variable.

If xx is the wife of yy and zz is the illegitimate son of yy, then xx may be angry.
If xx sends a poisonous vv to yy, then xx may want to kill yy.

If xx believes that yy killed xx's father, then xx may be angry.
If xx is resolved to kill yy, then xx must want to kill yy.

Show both perspectives.

First perspective.
Start story titled "Hamlet".
Hamlet is the prince of Denmark.
King Hamlet is the king of Denmark.
Claudius is the uncle of Hamlet.
King Hamlet was killed by Claudius.
Claudius succeeded King Hamlet as the king.
The ghost of King Hamlet asked Hamlet to revenge.
Since then, Hamlet pretended to be mad.
He refused to love Ophelia, his girlfriend.
Then, Hamlet arranged a show and proved that King Claudius was guilty.
Hamlet believed that Claudius killed Hamlet's father.
Hamlet is resolved to kill his uncle.
Accidentally, Hamlet killed Ophelia’s father, so King Claudius exiled Hamlet to England.
In despair, Ophelia drowned herself.
Laertes is Ophelia’s brother.
Laertes challenged Hamlet to a duel.
Hamlet killed Laertes and King Claudius.
But he died from the poison of the blade of Laertes.
The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Hera".
// https://classicalwisdom.com/mythology/heracles-and-hera/
Hera is the wife of Zeus.
Heracles is the illegitimate son of Zeus.
Hera was angry and she sent a poisonous snake to Heracles.
Heracles killed the snake with bare hands.
Hera made Heracles mad so he killed his children and wife.
Hera also made Heracles to do the twelve labour.
The end.
