Start experiment.

// This switch sets the appropriate switch to true.
Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Learn procedure button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.

Both perspectives.

Tiverton is a place.
The emergency responders are persons.
James is a person.
Anselmo is a person.
Correia is a person.
Jayme is a person.
Sarah is a person.
Rescue-personnel is a person.

Hazel is a person.
EW is a person.
Sisk is a person.
Lisa is a person.
Jason is a person.
Paramedics are persons.

The scene, the bathrooms, and the docks are entities.
The Quarry Park and the hospital are entities.

xx, yy, and zz are entities.
vv is a variable.
uu is a variable.
aa is an action.

Note that "James" is a masculine name.
Note that "Hazel" is a masculine name.
Note that "Anselmo" is a masculine name.
Note that "Sisk" is a masculine name.
Note that "Jayme" is a masculine name.
Note that "EW" is a feminine name.
Note that "Correia" is a feminine name.

Start description of "Action-evoking goal".
 xx's wanting vv leads to aa.
The end.

If xx scrambles to yy, then xx must want to reach yy.
If xx yells, then xx must want to be heard.
If xx shouts, then xx must want to be heard.
If xx checks yy, then xx must want to find something in yy.
If xx scours yy, then xx must want to find something in yy.
If xx hands out swim goggles, then xx must want someone to swim.
If xx presses yy's chest, then xx must want to expel water from yy.
If xx provides mouth-to-mouth breaths to yy, then xx must want to ingest air into yy.
If xx takes over yy, then xx must want to gain control over yy.
If xx transported yy to zz, then xx must want to send yy into zz.

If xx walks from yy to zz, then xx must want to leave yy.
If xx walks from yy to zz, then xx must want to reach zz.
If xx yells to yy, then xx must want to be heard by yy.
If xx jumps into yy, then xx must want to reach yy.
If xx gives yy chest compressions, then xx must want to expel water from yy.
If xx gives rescue breaths to yy, then xx must want to ingest air into yy.
If xx transported yy to zz in vv, then xx must want to send yy into zz.

Show both perspectives.

First perspective.
Start story titled "James's story".
There were about 35 people at an annual summer party in Tiverton.
Ten people were in the pool at the time.
Anselmo walked from a swing set to the fence.
His attention was drawn to James.
At first, James was swimming in circles.
But suddenly he went under the water.
Anselmo yelled to Correia, who jumped into the pool.
He jumped over the fence and into the water.
Together they found Anselmo, handing him to an uncle.
Jayme gave James chest compressions.
The gunk and water left his mouth and nose.
Sarah gave rescue breaths to James.
Rescue-personnel arrived and transported James to Hospital in Providence.
He stayed overnight for observation.
The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Hazel's story".
The drama unfolded on a warm late-summer Saturday in Quarry Park.
Hazel was last seen in the water with no life jacket at Quarry No 11.
The emergency responders scrambled to the scene.
Meanwhile, EW was yelling that her daughter was drowning.
Lisa is Sisk's girlfriend.
Lisa checked the bathrooms.
He shouted into the crowd for any strong swimmers and asked them to begin searching.
They also began handing out any swim goggles they could find.
Sisk scoured the docks and climbed to a high spot for a wider view.
Jason found Hazel in 15 feet of water and brought her to shore.
Sisk pressed Hazel's chest.
Lisa provided mouth-to-mouth breaths to Hazel.
Sisk continued the compressions for about 5 minutes before another bystander relieved him.
Then, paramedics took over the Quarry Park.
Hazel was transported to the hospital.
The end.
