Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Learn concept button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.
Both perspectives.

Denmark is a country.
Hamlet is a person.
King Hamlet is a person.
Claudius is a person.
Ophelia is a person.
Laertes is a person.

xx, yy, and zz are entities.
vv is a variable.
uu is a variable.
aa is an action.
pp is a country.

Show both perspectives.

First perspective.
Start story titled "Pinocchio".
// https://www.storiestogrowby.org/story/pinocchio-fairy-tale-story-english-kids/
Pinocchio is a puppet boy made by Gepetto.
The Blue Fairy gave life to Pinocchio so Pinocchio can move like a real boy.
Gepetto loved Pinocchio very much.
Gepetto sold his coat to get enough money to buy school books for Pinocchio.
Pinocchio was attracted by the circuit and bought ticket with the money.
The owner of the circuit saw Pinocchio and thought that the puppet would make him rich.
He picked up Pinocchio and trapped him in a birdcage.
The Blue Fairy appeared and asked how did Pinocchio get into the cage.
Pinocchio was afraid that the fairy would blame him if he tells the truth.
So he told the fairy that he was robbed by two men.
His nose started to grow.
He said that the two men took his money and threw him into the cage.
His nose grew longer and longer.
The Blue Fairy suggested that Pinocchio tell the truth.
Pinocchio told the truth and his nose became normal.
The Blue Fair saved him from the cage and gave him the schoolbooks.
The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "The boy who cried wolf".
A shepherd boy was bored as he sat on the hillside watching the village sheep.
To amuse himself, he shouted out that the Wolf is chasing the sheep.
The villagers ran up the hill to help drive the wolf away.
But when they arrived at the top of the hill, they found no wolf.
The boy laughed at the sight of their angry faces.
The villagers instructed him not to cry wolf when there is no wolf.
Then they went grumbling back down the hill.
But the boy cried again and laughed at the villagers.
Later, he saw a real wolf prowling about his flock.
Alarmed, he sang out as loudly as he could, "Wolf! Wolf!"
But the villagers thought he was fooling them again, and so they didn't come.
The wolf ate the sheep.
The boy could do nothing but weeping.
An old man tried to comfort the boy.
The old man told the boy that nobody believes a liar even when he is telling the truth.
The boy dared not to lie again.
The end.
