Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Find difference button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
// Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Set right panel to source.

Both perspectives.

Burma is an entity.
General Archibald Wavell is an entity.
Winston Churchill is an entity.
British is an entity.
The Italians is an entity.
The British is an entity.
Japanese is an entity.
Egypt is an entity.
Australia is an entity.
// Western Desert Campaign is an entity.
Burma Campaign is an entity.
The defender 17th Indian Division is an entity.
Axis forces is an entity.
Forces is an entity.
Campaign is an entity.

cc is an entity.
pp is an entity.
vv is a variable.

If pp fights for the axis countries, then pp are the axis forces.
If pp invades cc, then pp are in war with cc.
If pp is greatly reduced by vv, then pp is short of combat forces.
If pp request help from cc, then pp is in need.
If pp attacks cc in vv, then pp are in war with cc.
If pp is insufficient for defence, then pp is short of combat forces.
If pp expects reinforcements, then pp is in need.

Show both perspectives.

First perspective.
Start story titled "Italians invaded Egypt".
In 1940, the Italians invaded Egypt.
The Italians fought for the axis countries.
In 1882, the British based forces in Egypt.
But the forces was greatly reduced by the terms of the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty of 1936.
The British requested help from Australia, so Australia sent four infantry divisions.
The British won the campaign of Western Desert.
The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Japanese bombed Burma".
The Japanese are the axis forces in Asia.
Japanese attacked Burma in December 1941.
Burma was colonized by the British.
Winston Churchill wanted to win the Burma Campaign.
The defender, 17th Indian Division, lost two brigades and was insufficient for defence.
General Archibald Wavell was the commander in chief of the American British Dutch Australian Command and was expecting substantial reinforcements.
The end.
