// From ZT 

xx and yy are persons.

// 100 % true
If xx kills yy, then yy becomes dead.
If xx kills yy, then xx takes yy's life.
If xx kills yy, then xx ends yy's life.

// for me 100 % true
If xx kills yy, then xx hurts yy's family.
If xx kills yy, then yy becomes pained.

// 5

// for me are explanation rules
If xx selects a weapon, xx may kill yy.
If xx hardens xx's heart, xx may kill yy.
If xx kills yy, then xx may deprive yy of xx.
If xx kills yy, then xx may receive capital punishment.
If xx kills yy, then someone may prosecute xx.
If xx kills yy, then xx may become damned.
If xx kills yy, then xx may die.
If xx kills yy, then xx may commit a crime.
If xx kills yy, then xx may destroy the evidence.
If xx kills yy, then xx may get rid of the evidence.
If xx kills yy, then xx may clean up the evidence.
If xx kills yy, then xx may hide the evidence.
If xx kills yy, then xx may establish an alibi.
If xx kills yy, then xx may feel remorse.
If xx kills yy, then xx may be arrested by the police.
If xx kills yy, then xx may be sentenced.
If xx kills yy, then xx may get blood on xx's clothes.
If xx kills yy, then xx may go to jail.
If xx kills yy, then xx may laugh.
If xx kills yy, then yy may be punched.
If xx kills yy, then xx may drink yy's blood.
If xx kills yy, then xx may shoot yy.
If xx kills yy, then xx may murder yy.
If xx kills yy, then xx may run.
If xx conquers yy, then xx may kill yy.
If xx kills yy, then someone may cry.

// From phw

If xx wants revenge, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants to defend xx, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants money, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants to kill yy, then xx may murder yy.
If xx wants to avenge a death, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants to get rid of yy, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants to keep yy silent, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants to sate xx's anger, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants yy to become dead, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants to defend xx, then xx may kill yy.
If xx wants to stay alive, then xx may kill yy.
If xx is angry, then xx may kill.
If xx is being raped by yy, then yy may kill xx.
If xx is evil, then xx may kill yy.
If xx is a fool, then xx may kill yy.
If xx is hungry, then xx may kill yy.
If xx is insane, then xx may kill yy.
If xx is mean, then xx may kill yy.
If xx is a soldier, then xx may kill yy.
If xx is trying to kill yy, then yy may kill xx.
If xx attacked yy, then yy may kill yy.
If xx killed yy's wife, then yy may kill xx.
If xx needs yy to eat, then xx may kill yy.
If xx is in danger, then xx may kill yy.
If xx attacked yy, then yy may kill xx.

// 50

// Total: 50 + 5 = 55
