Persuade Your Parents to Buy Fast Food

Part 1
Talking to Your Parents
1
Ask your parents why they won’t buy fast food.
Communication is the key to any good relationship, especially with your parents.
Ask directly: “Why won't you buy me fast food?” and you’re likely to get a direct response.
2
Be direct and respectful.
Chances are high that your parents won't deal with disrespect or confrontational behavior.
Calling names, yelling or being visibly frustrated will only make the conversation harder.
No matter how frustrated you feel, keep it civil.
3
Note their reasons.
For each one of the reasons that your parents give you as to why they won’t buy fast food, make a mental note.
You’ll be able to refute these points with a little bit of research.
Keep their reasons in mind and mentally file them away for later.
Part 2
Doing Some Research
1
Remember their points.
There are many reasons why your parents might be unwilling to by fast food: it might be too expensive, or they might be worried about your health.
You might want to go get fast food with your friends, but your parents may disapprove.
You’ll need to do a little research on what to say to get your parents to change their minds.
Refuting their points directly will be the best way to change their outlook.
2
Focus on your health.
If your parents are concerned with your health and use this as their reason, there's plenty of research you can use to change their mind.
Learning about nutrition and reading menus can help.
You can also opt for healthier fast food places that offer better choices.
Eat healthy food a lot.
Your parents will be more likely to give you fast food, if you ate more healthy meals in the short-term.
Then your parents will be more likely to think that you can have fast food and that your health will not collapse into disrepair and neglect.
Look at menus.
Most fast food places have begun to roll out healthier menus, and you may be able to convince your parents to buy you some of the healthier options, like the lower calorie Fresca menu at Taco bell or some healthier sides at McDonalds.
Learn about nutrition.
The more you know about nutrition and the needs of your body, the you'll understand about how fast food can affect your diet.
Know that as long as you aren’t eating more calories than you need every day, you won’t gain weight, even if you only eat fast food.
3
Research value menus.
If you want to eat fast food, but money is the main reason your parents don’t want to buy it, research prices at your favorite chains.
Many offer dollar menus or other value menus that can be reasonably priced.
Keep an eye on deals.
Often, fast food chains will offer deals that drop the prices of meals substantially.
Restaurants often advertise on the radio or TV, so watch for two-for-one deals, coupons, or limited-time-offers that might make a meal more affordable.
4
Think about how much you value time with friends.
If going out to restaurants helps you fit in with your friends, think about how to explain this to your parents.
Spending time with your friends is important, and helps you bond, even if it's just over cheeseburgers.
Think about ways to explain how hanging out is important to you and your friend group, and how it helps you stay in touch with kids your age.
Part 3
Making a Deal
1
Talk to your parents again.
Bring your research with you, or memorize what you’re going to say.
Remember the specific points that they brought up earlier, and prepare your well thought out responses.
2
Refute their reasons.
Whether it's price, nutrition, or some other reason keeping your parents from buying fast food, present your corresponding evidence.
No matter their reason, bring a solid argument that presents a positive viewpoint.
3
Tell them how often you’d like to eat fast food.
Moderation will be key in saving money and staying healthy while eating fast food.
Tell your parents how often you’d like to go out: once a month, once a week, or more.
Be specific.
The more specific you are about your expectations, the more you can talk to them about budget per week.
4
Ask them to get fast food as a treat.
If your parents are having a hard time changing their mind, ask them if fast food can be your reward for an achievement.
They'll have a harder time saying no if they know you're willing to work hard for your treat.
5
Tell them you’ll pay for it yourself.
If money is your parents' concern, offer to pay for the meals.
If you have an allowance or an after school job, this won’t be too much of a problem.
Offering to buy the fast food may help persuade your parents, as they won't have to worry about the expense.
If you don’t have enough money to pay for the whole meal, offer to match funds instead, paying half.
6
Make an exercise plan, and show your parents.
Make an exercise plan that will offset the caloric intake of fast food.
Schedule jogging or cycling sessions, or consider joining a sport at school.
Show your parents the plan, and let them know how your physical activity will offset any of the bad foods that you might eat.
.
7
Enjoy your fast food treat.
If you follow through and state your case reasonably, you’re bound to persuade your parents to buy you some fast food.
Enjoy and know how much hard work you put into changing their minds.
Make sure to thank them for getting you your fast food!.
