//Les Mis 3, Jan 2017
//Attempt at a long version of Les Mis

Start experiment.

Start common sense knowledge.
xx is a person.
yy is a person.
If xx commits a crime, then xx is a criminal.
If xx is a policeman, then xx wants to catch criminals. //not nec
If xx is a policeman and yy is a criminal, then xx wants to arrest yy.

If xx repents and xx becomes a good person, then xx is not a criminal.

Inspector Javert is a name.
Jean Valjean is a name.
Monseigneur Myriel is a name.
Fantine
Tholomyes
Cosette
Marius
Monsieur Thenardier and Madame Thenardier
Enjolras
Inspector Javert, Jean Valjean, and Monseigneur Myriel are persons.

Start story titled "Les Mis 3".

Jean Valjean steals some bread to save his sister's starving children.

Then, Jean Valjean gets imprisoned.
Inspector Javert works at the prison.
Jean Valjean is strong.
Jean Valjean tries to escape multiple times.
Jean Valjean gets a longer prison sentence.

After 19 years, Jean Valjean is released from prison.
Jean Valjean arrives in Digne.
No one wants to shelter an ex-convict.

Monseigneur Myriel is a bishop and is very kind.
Monseigneur Myriel welcomes and feeds Jean Valjean.
Monseigneur Myriel gives Jean Valjean a bed to sleep in.
Jean Valjean is angry at the world and poor, so he steals Monseigneur Myriel's silverware.
The police catch Jean Valjean and want to arrest him.
Monseigneur Myriel claims that he gave the silverware to Jean Valjean, so Jean Valjean is innocent.
Monseigneur Myriel convinces Jean Valjean to repent and become an honest man.

Jean Valjean enters the town of Montreuil.
Jean Valjean pretends to be named Madeleine.
Madeleine starts a factory and becomes mayor of Montreuil.

In Paris, Fantine falls in love with Tholomyes.
Tholomyes is wealthy and impetuous. //todo better word?
Tholomyes makes Fantine pregnant.
Tholomyes does not want a child, so he abandons Fantine.
Fantine is not married.
Fantine gives birth to Cosette.
//todo: if xx is not married and xx gives birth to yy, then xx has an illegitimate child. -> Fantine has an illegitimate child. 
Fantine needs to find work.
Fantine cannot find work with an illegitimate child.

In Montfermeil, Fantine entrusts Cosette to Monsieur Thenardier and Madame Thenardier.
Monsieur Thenardier and Madame Thenardier are innkeepers and scoundrels.
Monsieur Thenardier and Madame Thenardier will care for Cosette as long as Fantine sends money.
//todo: if xx has an illegitimate child, then xx is disgraceful

In Montreuil, Fantine begins working in Madeleine's factory.
Fantine's coworkers learn about Cosette, so Fantine is fired.
Fantine needs to send money to Monsieur Thenardier and Madame Thenardier.
Fantine becomes a prostitute and causes trouble.
Inspector Javert arrests Fantine.
Madeleine stops Inspector Javert's arresting Fantine.
Fantine falls ill and goes to the hospital.

In the hospital, Fantine is dying.
Madeleine promises to take care of Cosette.
A man is falsely accused of being Jean Valjean, so Madeleine confesses to save the man.
//Inspector Javert confronts Madeleine about his identity.
//todo infer: Madeleine admits that he is Jean Valjean.
Inspector Javert arrests Jean Valjean.
Fantine dies.

Jean Valjean escapes from prison.
Jean Valjean goes to Montfermeil and buys Cosette from Monsieur Thenardier and Madame Thenardier.

Jean Valjean and Cosette move to Paris.
In Paris, Inspector Javert discovers Jean Valjean, so Jean Valjean flees.
Jean Valjean and Cosette move into a convent. 

//skipped: Marius's grandfather (M. Gillenormand) and father (Georges Pontmercy)

Marius sees Cosette in the park.
Marius and Cosette fall in love.

//skipped: The Thenardiers as the Jondrettes, Javert arresting the Thenardiers, Javert almost catching Valjean
//skipped: politics
//skipped: Eponine helps Marius find Cosette

In the garden, Marius and Cosette declare their love. //todo JV does not see
Cosette writes a love letter to Marius.

Jean Valjean finds Cosette's love letter.  //todo JV infers that Cosette loves Marius
Jean Valjean decides to save Marius.  //todo if jj loves cc and cc loves mm, then jj tries to save mm

Marius's friends fight in an uprising.
Marius is distraught at losing Cosette.
Marius joins his friends and is ready to die.
Eponine joins the uprising because she loves Marius.
Eponine dies to save Marius.
Javert joins the uprising as a spy.
Enjolras ties up Javert.
Jean Valjean joins the uprising because he wants to save Marius.
Jean Valjean volunteers to execute Javert. //todo because JV is a good person and thinks Javert is a good person
Jean Valjean releases Javert. //todo separate location, so others don't see
Jean Valjean rescues Marius.
Jean Valjean escapes through the sewers. //todo Thenardier sees and thinks Marius is dead
Javert arrests Jean Valjean.
Jean Valjean explains...
Javert is tormented, lets Jean Valjean go, and commits suicide. //todo lots of inferences/mental modeling here

Marius recovers. 
//skipped: Marius reconciles with his grandfather.
Jean Valjean tells Marius that Jean Valjean was a criminal. //todo Cosette doesn't see
Marius and Cosette marry.
Marius keeps Cosette away from Jean Valjean. //todo because JV was a criminal
Marius discovers from Thenardier that Jean Valjean saved Marius. //todo lots of inferences
Marius and Cosette rush to Jean Valjean for reconciliation. //todo reconciliation explanation!!
Jean Valjean is happy.
Jean Valjean is old and weak, so Jean Valjean dies.

The end.
