//Les Mis 3a, Jan 2017
//Attempt at a shortened long version of Les Mis

Start experiment.

Start common sense knowledge.
xx is a person.
yy is a person.
jj is a person.
cc is a person.
mm is a person.
If xx commits a crime, then xx is a criminal.
If xx is a policeman, then xx wants to catch criminals. //not nec
If xx is a policeman and yy is a criminal, then xx wants to arrest yy.

If xx repents and xx becomes a good person, then xx is not a criminal.

If xx is a criminal, yy is a policeman, and xx confesses, then yy may arrest xx. //todo test 

If jj loves cc and cc loves mm, then jj tries to save mm.

If xx is not married and xx gives birth to yy, then xx has an illegitimate child. //todo rm?

Inspector Javert is a name.
Jean Valjean is a name.
Monseigneur Myriel is a name.
Fantine is a name.
Cosette is a name.
Marius is a name.
Thenardier is a name.
Inspector Javert, Jean Valjean, Monseigneur Myriel, Fantine, Cosette, Marius, and Thenardier are persons.

Start story titled "Les Mis 3a".

Jean Valjean steals some bread to save his sister's starving children.

Then, Jean Valjean gets imprisoned.
Inspector Javert works at the prison.
Jean Valjean is strong.
Jean Valjean tries to escape multiple times.
Jean Valjean gets a longer prison sentence.

After 19 years, Jean Valjean is released from prison.
Jean Valjean arrives in Digne.
No one wants to shelter an ex-convict.

Monseigneur Myriel is a bishop and is very kind.
Monseigneur Myriel welcomes and feeds Jean Valjean.
Monseigneur Myriel gives Jean Valjean a bed to sleep in.
Jean Valjean is poor and angry at the world.
Jean Valjean steals silverware from Monseigneur Myriel.
The police catch Jean Valjean and want to arrest him.
Monseigneur Myriel claims that he gave the silverware to Jean Valjean, so Jean Valjean is innocent.
Monseigneur Myriel convinces Jean Valjean to repent and become an honest man.

Jean Valjean breaks his parole.

Jean Valjean enters the town of Montreuil.
Jean Valjean pretends to be named Madeleine.
Madeleine starts a factory and becomes mayor of Montreuil.

In Paris, Fantine falls in love and becomes pregnant.
Fantine's lover abandons Fantine.
Fantine is not married.
Fantine gives birth to Cosette.
//Infer: Fantine has an illegitimate child. 
Fantine needs to find work.
Fantine cannot find work with an illegitimate child.

In Montfermeil, Fantine entrusts Cosette to Thenardier.
Thenardier is an innkeeper and a scoundrel.
Thenardier will care for Cosette as long as Fantine sends money.
//todo: if xx has an illegitimate child, then xx is disgraceful

In Montreuil, Fantine begins working in Madeleine's factory.
Fantine's coworkers learn about Cosette, so Fantine is fired.
Fantine needs to send money to Thenardier.
Fantine becomes a prostitute and causes trouble.
Inspector Javert arrests Fantine.
Madeleine stops Inspector Javert's arresting Fantine.
Fantine falls ill and goes to the hospital.

Scene shifts to hospital.
Fantine is dying.
Madeleine promises to take care of Cosette.
To save an innocent man, Jean Valjean confesses his identity.
Inspector Javert arrests Jean Valjean.
Fantine dies.

Jean Valjean escapes from prison.
Jean Valjean goes to Montfermeil and buys Cosette from Thenardier.

Jean Valjean and Cosette move to Paris.
In Paris, Inspector Javert discovers Jean Valjean, so Jean Valjean flees.
Jean Valjean and Cosette move into a convent. 

Marius sees Cosette in the park.
Marius and Cosette fall in love.

In the garden, Marius and Cosette declare their love. //todo JV does not see

In the bedroom, Cosette writes a love letter to Marius.

Jean Valjean finds Cosette's love letter.  //todo JV infers that Cosette loves Marius
Jean Valjean decides to save Marius.

Cosette leaves. //todo explain
Marius becomes distraught.
Marius joins the uprising.
Javert joins the uprising as a spy.
Marius's friends tie up Javert.
Jean Valjean joins the uprising because he wants to save Marius.
Jean Valjean volunteers to execute Javert. //todo because JV is a good person and thinks Javert is a good person

In a hidden alley, Jean Valjean releases Javert. //todo separate location, so others don't see

In the battle, Marius gets injured. 
Jean Valjean rescues Marius. //todo Javert doesn't see b/c he's elsewhere; others don't see because they're dead
Jean Valjean escapes through the sewers. //todo Thenardier sees and thinks Marius is dead
Javert arrests Jean Valjean.
//todo Jean Valjean explains to Javert...
Javert is tormented, lets Jean Valjean go, and commits suicide. //todo lots of inferences/mental modeling here

Marius recovers. 
Jean Valjean confesses to Marius that Jean Valjean was a criminal. //todo Cosette doesn't see
Marius and Cosette marry.
Marius keeps Cosette away from Jean Valjean. //todo because JV was a criminal; Cosette doesn't understand
Thenardier tells Marius that Jean Valjean saved Marius. //todo lots of inferences
Marius and Cosette rush to Jean Valjean for reconciliation. //todo reconciliation explanation!!
Jean Valjean is happy.
Jean Valjean is old and weak, so Jean Valjean dies.

The end.
