//Les Mis 3.2 (Thesis), 1/31/2017

Start experiment.

Set Agent focused button to true.

Start common sense knowledge.
xx is a person.
If xx commits a crime, then xx is a criminal.
If xx repents, then xx will follow the law.

Jean Valjean is a name.
Inspector Javert is a name.

Jean Valjean and Inspector Javert are persons.

Start story titled "Les Mis 3.2".

Inspector Javert patrols the city.
Jean Valjean commits a crime.
Inspector Javert exits the scene.
Jean Valjean repents.
The end.

/*
Insert into text box: Does Inspector Javert think that Jean Valjean committed a crime?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Does Alice think that Jean Valjean committed a crime?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Does Jean Valjean think that Jean Valjean repented?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Does Inspector Javert think that Jean Valjean repented?  Pause.

Insert into text box: Does Jean Valjean think that Jean Valjean will follow the law?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Does Inspector Javert think that Jean Valjean will follow the law?  Pause.

Insert into text box: Why does Jean Valjean think that Jean Valjean will follow the law?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Why does Inspector Javert think that Jean Valjean will follow the law?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Why does Inspector Javert think that Jean Valjean is a criminal?
*/



/*
Start common sense knowledge.
xx is a person.
yy is a person.
If xx commits a crime, then xx may be a criminal.
If xx is a policeman and yy is a criminal, then xx wants to arrest yy.

If story is over and xx may be a criminal, then xx is a criminal.
If story is over and xx repents, then xx is not a criminal.

Inspector Javert is a name.
Jean Valjean is a name.
Inspector Javert and Jean Valjean are persons.

Start story titled "Les Mis 3.2".

Inspector Javert and Jean Valjean enter the scene.
	Inspector Javert is a policeman.
	Jean Valjean commits a crime.
Inspector Javert and Jean Valjean exit the scene.

Then, Jean Valjean enters the scene.
	Jean Valjean repents.
	Jean Valjean becomes a good person.
Jean Valjean exits the scene.

Inspector Javert and Jean Valjean enter the scene.
Story is over.

The end.

Insert into text box: Does Inspector Javert think that Jean Valjean repents?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Does Jean Valjean believe that Jean Valjean is not a criminal?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Does Alice think that Jean Valjean repents?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Why does Inspector Javert think that Jean Valjean repents?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Why does Inspector Javert believe that Jean Valjean is a criminal?  Pause.
Insert into text box: Why does Jean Valjean think that Jean Valjean isn't a criminal?  Pause.
*/