Start experiment.

Note that "Old Man Coyote" is a name.
Note that "Little_Duck" is a name.
Note that "Big_Duck" is a name.
Note that "Cirape" is a name.

Insert file Crow commonsense knowledge.
Insert file Crow reflective knowledge.

"Trickster" is a kind of personality trait.

Start story titled "Old Man Coyote Makes the World".

Old Man Coyote is a person.
Little_Duck is a duck.
Big_Duck is a duck.
Cirape is a coyote.

Mud is an object.
"the tradition of wife stealing" is a thing.

Old Man Coyote saw emptiness because the world didn't exist.
Old Man Coyote doesn't want emptiness.
Old Man Coyote tries to get rid of emptiness.

Little_Duck dives under water because Old Man Coyote asks for help.
Little_Duck's diving under water leads to Little_Duck's finding a root.
Old Man Coyote takes the root.

Big_Duck dives under water because Old Man Coyote asks for help.
Big_Duck's diving under water leads to Big_Duck's finding mud.
Old Man Coyote takes the mud.

Old Man Coyote's taking the root leads to Old Man Coyote's making a ball.
Old Man Coyote's taking the mud leads to Old Man Coyote's making a ball.
Old Man Coyote's trying to get rid of emptiness leads to Old Man Coyote's creating the world.
Strangely, Old Man Coyote's making a ball leads to Old Man Coyote's creating the world.

Old Man Coyote's creating the world leads to Old Man Coyote's talking to Big_Duck.
Strangely, Old Man Coyote's talking to Big_Duck leads to Old Man Coyote's making people.
Strangely, Old Man Coyote's talking to Big_Duck leads to Old Man Coyote's making females.

Old Man Coyote's creating the world leads to Old Man Coyote's talking to "Cirape".
Strangely, Old Man Coyote's talking to "Cirape" leads to Old Man Coyote's making animals.
Strangely, Old Man Coyote's talking to "Cirape" leads to Old Man Coyote's making dances.
Strangely, Old Man Coyote's talking to "Cirape" leads to Old Man Coyote's making weapons.
Strangely, Old Man Coyote's talking to "Cirape" leads to Old Man Coyote's making language.
Strangely, Old Man Coyote's talking to "Cirape" leads to Old Man Coyote's making war.

Old Man Coyote's making females leads to Old Man Coyote's making "the tradition of wife stealing".
Old Man Coyote's talking to "Cirape" leads to Old Man Coyote's making "the tradition of wife stealing".

The end.