Start experiment.

Note that "Plenty Coups" is a name.
Note that "Winds" is a name.
Note that "Bad Storms" is a name.
Note that "Thunders" is a name.
Note that "Moon" is a name.
Note that "Stars" is a name.
Note that "Dwarf Chief" is a name.

Insert file Crow commonsense knowledge.
Insert file Crow reflective knowledge.

"Trickster" is a kind of personality trait.

Start story titled "Plenty Coups' Adoption by the Little People".

Plenty Coups is a human.
Plenty Coups is a person.

Mysterious person is a person.

Dwarf Chief is extraordinary.
Winds is extraordinary.
Bad Storms is extraordinary.
Thunders is extraordinary.
Moon is extraordinary.
Stars is extraordinary.

Little Rockies is a place.
The mystery lodge is a place.

Plenty Coups wanted a vision.
Plenty Coups's wanting a vision leads to Plenty Coups's traveling to Little Rockies.

Little Rockies is hot.

Plenty Coups becomes weak because Plenty Coups traveled to Little Rockies and Little Rockies is hot.
Plenty Coups's becoming weak leads to Plenty Coups's having a vision.

Plenty Coups meets a mysterious person because Plenty Coups is having a vision.

The mysterious person does not touch the ground.
Plenty Coups does not touch the ground because Plenty Coups is having a vision.

Plenty Coups follows the mysterious person because Plenty Coups meets a mysterious person.
Plenty Coups's following the mysterious person leads to Plenty_Coups's entering mystery lodge.
Plenty Coups meets Winds because Plenty Coups enters mystery lodge.
Plenty Coups meets Bad Storms because Plenty Coups enters mystery lodge.
Plenty Coups meets Thunders because Plenty Coups enters mystery lodge.
Plenty Coups meets Moon because Plenty Coups enters mystery lodge.
Plenty Coups meets Stars because Plenty Coups enters mystery lodge.

Bad Storms asks "Why did you bring him here?" because Plenty Coups meets Bad Storms.
Bad Storms's asking "Why did you bring him here?" leads to Plenty_Coups's becoming sad.
Plenty Coups's becoming sad leads to Dwarf Chief's inviting Plenty Coups to the north side of the mystery lodge.
Plenty Coups meets Dwarf Chief because Dwarf Chief invites Plenty Coups to the north side of the mystery lodge.
Plenty Coups talks to Dwarf Chief because Plenty Coups meets Dwarf Chief.

Plenty Coups's talking to Dwarf Chief leads to Dwarf Chief's honoring Plenty Coups.
Plenty Coups's talking to Dwarf Chief leads to Dwarf Chief's adopting Plenty Coups.

Plenty Coups's talking to Dwarf Chief leads to Dwarf Chief's not giving Plenty Coups medicine.
Plenty Coups's having strong medicine leads to Dwarf Chief's not giving Plenty Coups medicine.

Plenty Coups's vision ends.
Plenty Coups wakes up because Plenty Coups's vision ends.
Plenty Coups's waking up leads to Plenty Coups's going home.

Dwarf Chief's adopting Plenty Coups leads to Plenty Coups's becoming a great chief.

The end.