Start experiment.

Set right panel to First perspective viewer.

Set bottom panel to Elaboration graph.

Insert file CA Evil.

Insert file CA Good.

Insert file Macbeth preface.

Start story titled "Wrapped Macbeth Plot".

Scotland and England are countries.

Dunsinane is a castle and Birnam Wood is a forest.

Macbeth, Macduff, Malcolm, Donalbain, Lady Macbeth, Lady Macduff, Cawdor, and Duncan are persons. 

Lady Macbeth is Macbeth's wife.

Lady Macduff is Macduff's wife.

// Lady Macbeth is evil and greedy.

Duncan is the king, and Macbeth is Duncan's successor.

Duncan is an enemy of Cawdor.

// Macbeth is brave.

Macbeth defeats Cawdor.

Duncan becomes happy because Macbeth defeats Cawdor.

The witches are weird.

The witches meet at night.

The witches danced and chanted.

Macbeth tells witches to speak.

Macbeth talks with the witches.

// Birnam Wood is a forest.

Witches predict that Birnam Wood will go to Dunsinane.

The witches predict that Macbeth will become Thane of Cawdor.

The witches predict that Macbeth will become king.

The witches astonish Macbeth.

Duncan executes Cawdor.

Macbeth becomes Thane of Cawdor.

Duncan rewarded Macbeth because Duncan became happy.

Lady Macbeth wants Macbeth to become king.

// Macbeth is weak and vulnerable.

Lady Macbeth persuades Macbeth to want to become the king because Lady Macbeth is greedy.

Macbeth loves Lady Macbeth.

Macbeth wants to please lady Macbeth.

Macbeth wants to become king because Lady Macbeth persuaded Macbeth to want to become the king.

Lady Macbeth plots to murder the king with Macbeth.

Macbeth invites Duncan to dinner.

Duncan compliments Macbeth.

Duncan goes to bed.

Duncan's guards become drunk and sleep.

In order to murder Duncan, Macbeth murders the guards, Macbeth enters the king's bedroom, and Macbeth stabs Duncan.

Macbeth becomes king.

Malcolm and Donalbain become afraid.

Malcolm and Donalbain flee.

Macbeth's murdering Duncan leads to Macduff's fleeing to England.

In order to flee to England, Macduff rides to the coast and Macduff sails on a ship.

Macduff's fleeing to England leads to Macbeth's murdering Lady Macduff.

Macbeth hallucinates at a dinner.

Lady Macbeth says he hallucinates often.

Everyone leaves because Lady Macbeth tells everyone to leave.

Macbeth's murdering Duncan leads to Lady Macbeth's becoming distraught.

Lady Macbeth has bad dreams.

Lady Macbeth thinks she has blood on her hands.

Lady Macbeth tries to wash her hands.

Lady Macbeth kills herself.

Birnam Wood goes to Dunsinane.

Macduff's army attacks Dunsinane.

Macduff curses Macbeth.
	
Macbeth refuses to surrender.

Macduff kills Macbeth.


Assume if experiment A: Lady Macbeth is evil.

Assume if experiment B: Lady Macbeth is good.

Assume if experiment C: Macbeth is evil.

Assume if experiment D: Macbeth is good.

Assume if experiment E: Duncan is evil.

Assume if experiment F: Duncan is good.

The end.







