Start Experiment.

Insert file Matt General Commonsense Knowledge.
Insert file Matt General Reflective Knowledge.

Start Story Titled, "Hansel and Gretel".

Mother is a name.
Mother is a person.

Father is a name.
Father is a person.

Hansel is a name.
Hansel is a person.

Gretel is name.
Gretel is person.

The witch is a name.
The witch is a person.

Mother dislikes Hansel.
Mother dislikes Gretel.
Mother persuades Father to abandon Hansel in the woods.
Mother persuades Father to abandon Gretel in the woods.
Father abandons Hansel in the woods.
Father abandons Gretel in the woods.
Father abandons Hansel in the woods because Mother persuaded Father to abandon Hansel in the woods.
Father abandons Gretel in the woods because Mother persuaded Father to abandon Gretel in the woods.

Hansel is lost.
Gretel is lost.
Hansel is lost because Father abandons Hansel in the woods.
Gretel is lost because Father abandons Gretel in the woods.

Hansel becomes hungry.
Gretel becomes hungry.

The witch lives in the candy_house.

Hansel finds the candy_house.
Gretel finds the candy_house.
Hansel finds the candy_house because Hansel is lost.
Gretel finds the candy_house because Gretel is lost.

Hansel eats the candy_house.
Gretel eats the candy_house.
Hansel eats the candy_house because Hansel becomes hungry and Hansel finds the candy_house.
Gretel eats the candy_house because Gretel becomes hungry and Gretel finds the candy_house.

//The witch enslaves Hansel.
//The witch enslaves Gretel.
The witch enslaves Hansel because Hansel eats the candy_house.
The witch enslaves Gretel because Gretel eats the candy_house.

The witch becomes hungry.
The witch wants to eat Hansel.
The witch wants to eat Gretel.
The witch wants to eat Hansel because Hansel eats the candy_house and the witch becomes hungry.
The witch wants to eat Gretel because Gretel eats the candy_house and the witch becomes hungry.

The witch fattens up Hansel.
The witch fattens up Hansel because the witch wants to eat Hansel.

The witch wants to push Gretel into the oven.
The witch wants to push Gretel into the oven because the witch wants to eat Gretel.
Gretel pushes the witch into the oven.
Gretel pushes the witch into the oven because the witch wants to push Gretel into the oven.

Gretel kills the witch.
Gretel kills the witch because Gretel pushes the witch into the oven.

Gretel frees Gretel.
Gretel frees Hansel.
The end.