Woodcutter is a name.
Wife is a name.

Hansel is a name.
Gretel is a name.
Koy is a name.

Start story titled "Hansel and Gretel".

Hansel and Gretel persons.


The Woodcutter is The wife's husband.
The Woodcutter is a person.
// The wife is The Woodcutter's wife.
The wife is a person.

The Woodcutter's First Wife left The Woodcutter because The Woodcutter was poor.
The Woodcutter is a person.
The Woodcutter became sad.

Hansel and Gretel are the Woodcutter's children.
Hansel and Gretel is a person.
The Woodcutter is Hansel's parent.
The Woodcutter is Gretel's parent.
The Woodcutter is a person.

Hansel is The wife's stepchild.
Gretel is The wife's stepchild.
Hansel and Gretel are persons.
The wife is Hansel's stepparent.
The wife is Gretel's stepparent.
The wife is a person.

Hansel is The Woodcutter's child.
Hansel is a person.
Hansel is The wife's stepchild.
Hansel is a person.

Gretel is The Woodcutter's child.
Gretel is a person.
Gretel is The wife's stepchild.
Gretel is a person.

The Woodcutter is Hansel's parent.
The Woodcutter is a person.
The Woodcutter is Gretel's parent. 
The Woodcutter is a person.

The wife is Hansel's stepparent.
The wife is a person.
The wife is Gretel's stepparent. 
The wife is a person.

The wife is The wife's baby's parent.
The wife is a person.
The Woodcutter is The wife's baby's parent.
The Woodcutter is a person.


Koy is a place.
The Woodcutter, The wife, Hansel and Gretel live in Koy.

The Woodcutter is a person.
The Woodcutter is hungry and poor.
The wife is a person.
The wife is hungry and poor.
//The Woodcutter and The wife are poor and hungry.

The Woodcutter is a person.
The Woodcutter works for long hours.
The Woodcutter doesn't have enough food for The Woodcutter's whole family.
The wife is a person.
The wife becomes pregnant.
The wife needs food for The wife's baby.
The Woodcutter wants to give food to Hansel.
The Woodcutter wants to give food to Gretel.
The wife worries because The wife doesn't have enough food for The wife's baby.
The wife becomes afraid because The wife doesn't want to starve.
The wife is a person.
The wife pressures The Woodcutter to provide more food.
The Woodcutter becomes ashamed because The Woodcutter is a bad provider.
The Woodcutter becomes afraid because The Woodcutter doesn't want The wife to leave The Woodcutter.

The wife doesn't want to share food because The wife wants to give food to The wife's baby.
The wife persuades The Woodcutter to abandon the children in the forest.

Hansel learns about The Woodcutter's plan.
Hansel makes a plan in order to survive.
Hansel fills Hansel's pockets with pebbles in order to mark the route back to Koy.

In order to lead the children into the forest, The Woodcutter lies.
The Woodcutter wants the children to survive.
The Woodcutter gives advice to Gretel to help the children.



Hansel drops pebbles in order to remember the path back to Koy.
Then, The Woodcutter sneaks away in order to abandon the children.
Gretel becomes afraid because The Woodcutter abandoned Gretel.  
Hansel reassures Gretel.
The children safely return to Koy.

The wife and The Woodcutter discover The children in the house.
The wife and The Woodcutter become shocked.
The Woodcutter becomes relieved because The children are safe.
The wife becomes relieved because The children are safe.
Then, The wife becomes angry because The wife must share food with The children.
 
 
 
The wife doesn't want to harm The children.
The wife wants to ensure The wife's baby's safety.
The wife cries because The wife doesn't know the solution to The wife's problem.
The Woodcutter doesn't suggest solutions.
The wife feels lonely because The Woodcutter doesn't help The wife.
The wife reprimands The Woodcutter because The wife becomes angry.

The Woodcutter doesn't want to harm The children.
The Woodcutter doesn't want to disobey The wife because The Woodcutter is afraid. 
The Woodcutter becomes ashamed.
The Woodcutter cries because The Woodcutter doesn't know the solution to The Woodcutter's problem.

The wife wants to get rid of The children.
The wife locks The children in a room.
The wife starves The children.

The wife admits The wife's fault.   
The Woodcutter becomes angry because The wife mistreated The children.
The Woodcutter wants to help The children.
The Woodcutter frees The children.
The Wooodcutter plans to leave The children in the forest because The Woodcutter believes the forest is safe.
The Woodcutter leads The children to the forest.
The Woodcutter tells the truth to The children about The Woodcutter's plan.
The Woodcutter abandons The children in the forest.
The children become angry with The Woodcutter.





The children become lost in the forest.
The children become cold and afraid.



// For some reason, these lines slow things up terribly
// Hansel and Gretel cry.
// In order to help Gretel, Hansel stops crying.



The witch's cottage is secluded because Humans exiled The witch.
The witch is a person.
The witch had a different appearance and different language.
// The witch is a person.
The witch didn't want to harm Humans.
// The witch is a person.
The witch wanted to help Humans.
In order to help Humans, The witch brewed healthy potions.
Humans didn't trust The witch because Humans are prejudiced.
Humans attacked The witch because Humans hated The witch.



In order to harm The witch, Humans insulted The witch and beat The witch and burned The witch's home.
The witch became confused and sad and afraid.
The witch escaped into the forest.
The witch wanted friends because The witch became lonely.
In order to attract friends, The witch built a candy cottage.
Humans found The witch's candy cottage.
Humans stole from The witch and insulted The witch.
The witch became angry.
Anger supernaturally transformed The witch.
The witch became a cannibal. 
In order to survive, The witch needs to eat Humans. 



The children are starving.
The children find The witch's cottage in the forest.
The children eat The witch's candy.
The witch wants to eat The children because The witch is hungry.
The witch tricks The children.
//The witch traps The children in a cage.
Hansel is a person.
Gretel is a person.
The witch traps Hansel and Gretel in a cage.
The children become afraid.
The children beg The witch for freedom.
The witch doesn't trust The children because The witch doesn't trust Humans.
The witch believes The children are evil.
The witch doesn't free The children.



The witch wants to cook The children in the oven.
Gretel wants to murder The witch because Gretel wants to survive.
Gretel makes a plan.
Gretel escapes from the cage.
Gretel burns The witch in order to murder The witch.
In order to burn The witch, Gretel pushes The witch into the hot oven.
The witch screams.



The children escape from The witch's cottage.
The children find The Woodcutter in the forest.
The Woodcutter becomes happy because The children are alive.
The children and The Woodcutter return home.
 
The wife becomes remorseful because The wife harmed The children.
The wife becomes happy because The children are alive.
The wife shares food with The children.



The end. 
 








