Start experiment.

Set bottom panel to elaboration graph.

Set left panel to Inspector.

Set right panel to Summary.

Set bottom panel to Elaboration graph.

Insert file General commonsense knowledge.

// In General commonsense knowledge
// Insert file Relations knowledge.

Insert file General reflective knowledge.

// Eastern

WW, XX, YY, and ZZ are persons.

YY may kill WW because YY wants to kill WW.

XX may kill YY because YY angers XX.

YY may murder WW because YY wants to become king and because WW is the king and because YY is WW's successor.

Start description of "Revenge".
xx is an entity.
yy is a entity.
xx's harming yy leads to yy's harming xx.
The end.

// Machiavellian

WW, XX, YY, and ZZ are persons.

If XX is an enemy of ZZ and YY is an enemy of ZZ, then XX may be a friend of YY.

If XX is an enemy of ZZ and YY is an enemy of ZZ, then YY may be a friend of XX.

A godfather is a kind of king.

Start story titled "Crime story".

Note that Vito is a name.
Note that Maria is a name.
Note that Alegra is a name.
Note that Michael is a name.
Note that Fabiano is a name.
Note that Antonio is a name.
Note that Dominico is a name.
Note that Luciano is a name.
Note that fortune teller is a name.

Note that Bronx is a name.
Note that Drug dealing is a name. 

America and Italy are countries.

Bronx is a community and drug dealing is a crime.

Fabiano, Michael, Antonio, Dominico,  Luciano, and Vito are criminals. 

Maria and Alegra are wives.

Maria is Fabiano's wife.

Alegra is Michael's wife.

Maria is evil and greedy.

Vito is a godfather, and Fabiano is Vito's successor.

Vito is an enemy of Luciano.

Fabiano is brave.

Fabiano defeats Luciano.

Vito becomes happy because Fabiano defeats Luciano.

The fortune teller is weird.

The fortune teller works at night.

The fortune teller uses tarrot cards.

Fabiano tells fortune teller to speak.

Fabiano talks with the fortune teller.

Drug dealing is a crime.

Fortune teller predicts that drug dealing will go to Bronx.

The fortune teller predicts that Fabiano will become chief of staff of godfather.

The fortune teller predicts that Fabiano will become godfather.

The fortune teller astonishes Fabiano.

Vito executes Luciano.

Fabiano becomes chief of staff of Luciano.

Vito rewarded Fabiano because Vito became happy.

Maria wants Fabiano to become godfather.

Fabiano is weak and vulnerable.

Maria persuades Fabiano to want to become the godfather because Maria is greedy.

Fabiano loves Maria.

Fabiano wants to please Maria.

Fabiano wants to become godfather because Maria persuaded Fabiano to want to become the godfather.

Maria plots to murder Vito with Fabiano.

Fabiano invites Vito to dinner.

Vito compliments Fabiano.

Vito goes to bed.

In order to murder Vito, Fabiano enters the kitchen, Fabiano murders the cooks, and Fabiano poisons Vito's food.

Fabiano becomes godfather.

Antonio and Dominico work for Fabiano.

Antonio and Dominico become afraid.

Antonio and Dominico flee.

Fabiano's murdering Vito leads to Michael's fleeing to Italy.

In order to flee to Italy, Michael drives to the airport, Michael bribes pilot, and Michael boards an airplane.

Michael's fleeing to Italy leads to Fabiano's murdering Alegra.

Fabiano faints when playing golf.

Maria says he faints often.

Everyone talks about Fabiano's fainting.

Fabiano's murdering Vito leads to Maria's becoming distraught.

Maria has bad dreams.

Maria thinks god will punish her.

Maria tries to pray but Maria cannot pray.

Maria talks to priest.

Priest scares Maria.

Maria kills herself.

Drug dealing goes to Bronx.

Michael's family enters Bronx.

Michael curses Fabiano.
	
Fabiano refuses to surrender.

Michael kills Fabiano.

Police arrest Fabiano.

Police release Fabiano because Fabiano bribes judge.

The end.




















