Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.

Set Summarizer switch to true.

Set Show text box switch to false.

Set Show markup switch to false.

Set bottom panel to elaboration graph.

Set left panel to Inspector.

Set right panel to Summary.

Insert file General commonsense knowledge.

Insert file Relations knowledge.

Insert file General reflective knowledge.

// Eastern

WW, XX, YY, and ZZ are persons.

YY may kill WW because YY wants to kill WW.

XX may kill YY because YY angers XX.

YY may murder WW because YY wants to become king and because WW is the king and because YY is WW's successor.

Start description of "Revenge".
xx is an entity.
yy is a entity.
xx's harming yy leads to yy's harming xx.
The end.

// Machiavellian

WW, XX, YY, and ZZ are persons.

If XX is an enemy of ZZ and YY is an enemy of ZZ, then XX may be a friend of YY.

If XX is an enemy of ZZ and YY is an enemy of ZZ, then YY may be a friend of XX.


Insert file Animacy.


Start story titled "Macbeth".





Thane is noble. England is a country. Dunsinane is a castle. Birnam Wood is a forest.
Duncan is a person. Cawdor is a person. Lady Macduff is a person. Lady Macbeth is a
person. Macduff is a person. Macbeth is a person. Donalbain is a person. Malcolm is a
person. Lady Macbeth is Macbeth's wife. Lady Macduff is Macduff's wife. Macbeth is a
thane. Macduff is a thane. Lady Macbeth is evil. Duncan is a king. Macbeth is Duncan's
successor. Duncan is Cawdor's enemy. Macduff is Cawdor's enemy. Duncan becomes happy
because Macbeth defeats Cawdor. Witches dance. Witches have visions. Macbeth talks with
witches. Macbeth becomes king. Witches predict that Macbeth becomes king. Witches astonish
Macbeth. Duncan executes Cawdor. Macbeth becomes thane. Duncan rewards Macbeth because
Duncan becomes happy. Lady Macbeth persuades that Macbeth wants to become king because
Lady Macbeth is greedy. Macbeth loves Lady Macbeth. Macbeth wants to please Lady Macbeth.
Macbeth wants to become king because Lady Macbeth persuades that Macbeth wants to become
king. Macbeth plans to murder king. Lady Macbeth plans Macbeth murdering king. Macbeth
plans Lady Macbeth murdering king. Lady Macbeth plans to murder king. Macbeth invites
Duncan to dinner. Duncan enters scene. Duncan complements Macbeth. Duncan goes to bed.
Guards become drunk. Guards sleep. In order to murder Duncan, Macbeth murders guards; in
order to murder Duncan, he enters bedroom; in order to murder Duncan, he stabs Duncan.
Malcolm becomes afraid. Donalbain becomes afraid. Malcolm flees. Donalbain flees. 

Macbeth's murdering Duncan leads to Macduff's fleeing to England. 

In order to flee to England,
Macduff rides to coast; in order to flee to England, he sails on ship. Macduff's fleeing to
England leads to Macbeth's murdering Lady Macduff. 

Macbeth hallucinates at dinner. Lady Macbeth
says Macbeth hallucinates. 

Lady Macbeth's telling everyone to leave leads to everyone leaving. 

Macbeth's murdering Duncan leads to Lady Macbeth becoming distraught. 

Lady Macbeth
has bad dreams. Lady Macbeth thinks she has blood on hands. Birnam Wood goes to Dunsinane.
Witches predict Birnam Wood goes to Dunsinane. Birnam wood is a forest. Birnam wood goes
to Dunsinane. Army attacks Dunsinane. Macduff curses Macbeth. Macbeth refuses to
surrender. Macduff kills Macbeth.


The end.













