Clean Velvet

Steps
Method 1
Removing Stains
1
Brush the item with a clothing brush or lint-free cloth before treating. Brushing the velvet will remove dirt and lint, and loosen any mats in the fabric. This prepares the fabric for treatment and can remove caked-on dirt before spot cleaning.[1]
When brushing accessories, make sure you’re getting into corners and areas where there might be hardware to remove dirt and lint.
2
Vacuum velvet furniture with the brush attachment. The suction will remove any dirt and lint, and the brush attachment will loosen up mats in the fabric to prepare it for cleaning. Be gentle and don’t push too hard on the fabric as you can crush the pile.[2]
To prevent further stains and dirt from damaging the fabric, you can vacuum your velvet once per week.
3
Mix 2 tablespoons of baking soda and ½ a cup of lemon juice to treat spots on furniture. You may need to add extra lemon juice to create more foam. You won’t be using any of the liquid portion of this mixture, so don’t worry about having excess liquid.[3]
If you’re cleaning the entire piece of furniture, you’ll probably need to add more baking soda and lemon juice as you work.
4
Mix 1 tbsp delicate detergent and 2 cups of water to treat clothing and accessories. Make sure there are a lot of bubbles while you’re mixing. If you need to, you can add more water and detergent to create the foam.[4]
5
Skim the foam of the mixture with a lint-free cloth. Gently pick up some of the foam that was created by the mixture. You don’t need a large amount, just enough to cover the top of the cloth.[5]
6
Dab the foam onto to the spot using a lint-free cloth. You can remove excess foam with a dry area of the cloth. Let the area dry and brush it with the cloth or a clothing brush.[6]
For furniture, you should apply the foam by wiping in long strokes with the nap of the fabric.[7]
You should test this method in a small, inconspicuous area first, such as the inner lining or hem hem of a piece of clothing if it has velvet on it, or a non-visible portion of the furniture or accessory.
7
Allow the item 3-5 hours to dry. Although the mixture might appear to dry quickly, give it some time to completely dry from the fabric and allow the pile of the velvet to return to its original form. Avoid using the item or piece of furniture during this time.[8]
If the stain is still present, apply another coat and allow it to dry again, repeating until the stain is gone.
8
Apply a protective coating to furniture or accessories to avoid new stains. You can find protective coating for velvet furniture at department stores, furniture stores, or online. Make sure you’re misting the item by spraying at least 6 inches (15 cm) away from the fabric, rather than saturating it with the spray.[9]
After the spray dries, wipe the furniture with a clothing brush or lint-free cloth to remove any mats or creases.
Protective coatings made specifically for delicate fabrics, such as Scotchguard and Nano Protector, are great solutions for accessories that tend to get dirty quickly. You can also use furniture protector spray to ensure waterproofing for velvet shoes.[10]
Applying a protective coating might void your item’s warranty, so make sure you check the care information before spraying the item with the solution.
Method 2
Washing and Drying Velvet
1
Check the label closely. The label will tell you most of the information that you need to know for cleaning your velvet item. It will also tell you what the velvet is made out of. There are a few types of velvet, such as pure, polyester blend, and crushed velvet.[11]
If the tag has an “S” on it, you should treat it with dry cleaning solvents, not water, or get it professionally cleaned. [12]
2
Take pure velvet clothing to a dry cleaner. If you have an article of pure velvet clothing, the best way to get it cleaned is at the dry cleaner. They’ll be able to treat the clothing and are experts at the best methods for removing dirt and stains from delicate clothing.[13]
3
Wash crushed or polyester velvet in cold water with delicate detergent. If your item is a polyester blend or crushed velvet, it’s safe to wash in the washing machine. Make sure it’s on the cold water setting and use a delicate care detergent.[14]
4
Place your velvet in a mesh delicates bag or wash alone to prevent creasing. Other articles of clothing can press against your velvet items in the washer and cause creases or mats in the fabric. A mesh delicates bag can protect the clothing, or you can wash the piece of clothing by itself.[15]
This method works best for articles of clothing as well as velvet pillow cases, and scarves.
5
Lay flat to dry. Velvet should never be put in a dryer. Find a clean, flat surface in a dry area to lay your piece of clothing on. It can take up to 12 hours for a piece of clothing to dry depending on the weight of the material, so be patient. Check on it after a few hours and flip the article over if you think it’s not drying evenly.[16]
6
Store your velvet items by hanging them in the closet or placing them in a dust cover. Keeping your velvet clothing upright and stored in your closet will help prevent creases and wrinkles. Make sure your other clothing isn’t pressing against the velvet and crushing the fabric.
If your velvet accessory comes with a dust cover, like a purse or a pair of shoes might, use it while you’re storing the item. This will prevent dirt and lint from getting into the fabric.
Method 3
Pressing Velvet
1
Use a steamer to remove wrinkles or creases. If your piece of clothing or other velvet item has a wrinkle or crease in the pile, you can use a steamer on its low setting to remove the crease. Hold the steamer about 10 centimetres (3.9 in) away from the fabric and move the steamer in the direction of the nap.[17]
For accessories like shoes or purses that tend to be lined or structured, steaming won’t work as well. If you have a crease, try brushing it out or placing a form or tissue inside of the accessory to help it maintain its shape.
2
Hang the item on a strong hanger in the bathroom while you shower. For some wrinkles, the steam from a hot shower can release the creases and return the item to good as new. Be careful not to get the item wet as water can leave spots on velvet![18]
3
Use an iron on the steam setting if you don’t have a steamer. You can use an iron on the steam setting to remove wrinkles and creases. Like the steamer, you’ll hold the iron about 10 centimetres (3.9 in) away from the fabric and move the iron in the direction of the nap. Be careful not to touch the velvet with the iron.[19]
4
Remove deep creases with a spare piece of velvet and an iron or steamer. Place the spare velvet on the ironing board, pile side up. Then, place your velvet item pile side down on top of the spare velvet. Hover the steamer or iron on steamer setting over the top of the velvet for 15 seconds, repeating until the crease is removed.[20]
