Eat Food With New or Tightened Braces

Steps
Foods to Eat and Avoid
Sample List of Easy to Eat Foods (Braces)
Sample List of Foods to Avoid (Braces)
Part 1
Altering Your Diet
1
Choose soft foods. Soft, non-chewy foods are the best food for braces. Not only are they less likely to damage your braces, they are also less likely to cause pain on sensitive teeth. Some foods like hard vegetables can still be eaten, but they should be steamed until they are soft and easy to bite. Some braces-friendly foods that won't upset sensitive teeth include:
soft cheeses
yogurt
soup
non-tough, soft-cooked meats without any bones (chicken, turkey, meatballs, deli slices, etc.)
soft seafood dishes without any bones (fish, crab cakes)
pasta/noodles
boiled or mashed potatoes
soft, cooked rice
eggs
soft-cooked beans
soft breads without a hard crust
soft tortillas
pancakes
soft baked goods, such as biscuits and muffins
pudding
applesauce
bananas
smoothies, ice cream, or milkshakes
jello
2
Avoid hard foods. Hard foods can crack your braces, and may cause mild to severe pain in the days following an installation or adjustment of your braces. Avoid anything that is hard or crunchy, especially following an orthodontic appointment. Common hard foods to avoid include, but are not limited to:
nuts of any kind
granola[1]
popcorn[2]
ice
hard bread crusts
bagels
pizza crust
chips (potato and tortilla)
hard shell tacos
raw carrots (unless cut into very small pieces)
apples (unless cut into small slices)
corn (unless it's just kernels - avoid eating corn on the cob)
3
Cut out sticky foods. Sticky foods are bad for your braces, and may cause pain if you try to chew them with new braces. Candy and gum are the worst sticky foods, and should be avoided with braces. Some sticky foods to avoid include:
gum of any kind
licorice
toffee
caramel
Starburst
Sugar Daddies
chocolate
cheese
Score0 / 0
Part 1 Quiz
Why should you avoid hard foods if you have braces? 
They can cause cavities. 
Not exactly! Hard foods won't cause cavities if you have braces. However, you should always clean your braces thoroughly to make sure you remove all food. This can help you avoid cavities and infections.  Try again...
They can crack your braces. 
Absolutely! Hard foods can sometimes crack your braces, which can be painful. Avoid hard foods such as nuts, granola, and popcorn.  Read on for another quiz question.
They can reverse the braces' effects. 
Not quite! Eating hard foods won't necessarily reverse your braces' effects. They can, however, damage your braces, so you would need to visit your orthodontist to get them fixed.  Click on another answer to find the right one...
Part 2
Changing How You Eat
1
Cut food into small pieces. One of the biggest risks that could damage the brackets on your braces comes from how you eat food. Biting into foods the way you're used to from a lifetime of eating could cause brackets to come off your teeth or break apart. One way to avoid this is by cutting your food into smaller pieces. This can help you manage how much work your teeth are doing at any given time.
Use a knife to cut corn kernels off the cob. Corn is soft enough that it should be safe to eat, but biting into the cob could hurt your teeth or damage your braces or induce pain in your jaw.[3]
Cut apples into slices before eating. Much like corn, biting into the core could cause pain or damage your braces.[4]
Even if you're eating braces-friendly foods, you may still want to cut your food into smaller pieces. This can help manage pain and protect your teeth from damage.
2
Chew with your back teeth. Most people don't think too much about which teeth they use to bite and chew their food. But when you've recently had braces put on or adjusted, your teeth may be extra sensitive. Chewing with your back teeth, which tend to be thicker and better built for grinding food, can help alleviate the pain your front teeth might be feeling.
As you chew, try to avoid tearing or pulling apart food with your front teeth. This is another reason smaller bites may be helpful.[5]
It may be helpful to physically put the food in the back of your mouth (but away from your throat, so you don't choke).[6]
If you're not used to using a fork in the back of your mouth and worry about biting the fork, try picking up the food pieces with your fingers and gently placing them in place to chew with your back teeth.[7]
3
Eat slowly. Though you may be very hungry, especially if your teeth were too sore to eat on the first day of having braces, it's important to eat slowly. Eating too quickly could cause you to forget how to eat (small bites, chewed with your back teeth); you may also risk biting into seeds, pits, or bones.[8] If you chew too quickly, pain and inflammation also might occur in your teeth. This is because the bones and ligaments that support the teeth in your mouth are already weakened from working with the forces that straighten your teeth.
Drink plenty of water while you eat. This can help make swallowing easier if you're having a hard time chewing. Drinking water will also help rinse away any food residue that may get caught in your braces.[9]
Score0 / 0
Part 2 Quiz
How should you eat with new or tightened braces?
Grind the food in the back of your mouth.
Yup! Using a fork or your fingers, physically place the food in the back of your mouth. This way, you can chew with your back teeth, which are more durable and less likely to cause you pain. Read on for another quiz question.
Use your front teeth to tear the food.
Not exactly! As you chew, you should try to avoid tearing or pulling apart food with your front teeth. These teeth are typically extra sensitive after you get new or tightened braces. Pick another answer!
Bite into foods using the teeth on the sides of your mouth.
Not quite! You may find it easier to cut your food into small pieces rather than trying to bite into it. For example, cut apples into slices before eating, and slice corn off the cob to make it easier to chew. Try another answer...
Part 3
Managing Your Pain
1
Rinse with saline. Your teeth, gums, lips, tongue, and cheeks may be sore for several days after having braces installed or adjusted. This is normal, and can be managed in a number of ways. The easiest way to reduce inflammation in your mouth is by rinsing with a saline mouth rinse.[10]
Mix one teaspoon of salt into an eight ounce glass of clean, warm water. Don't make it too hot, as you do not want to risk burning your mouth.[11]
Stir until the salt is completely dissolved.[12]
Rinse and swish with the saline mix as often as necessary throughout the day, especially during the first week after an installation or adjustment. Spit out the rinse when you're finished.[13]
2
Use wax on sharp wires. Many people with braces experience pain as the lips, cheeks, and tongue become used to brushing against the metal braces. Other braces wearers may experience a stray poking wire from time to time. Both of these are fairly normal experiences, and the best way to deal with the pain is by applying orthodontic wax to the brackets or wires that are causing pain and discomfort. Wax can be useful as your mouth adjusts to having the new appliances on your teeth, or as a temporary solution until you can get to your orthodontist for repairs. However, if you have a broken bracket or a poking wire, it's best to see your orthodontist as soon as possible to remedy the problem.[14]
Only use orthodontic wax on your braces. Ask your orthodontist for a supply of wax to take home with you, or check your local pharmacy for orthodontic wax.[15]
If you keep applying wax and it keeps falling off, ask your orthodontist to heat up a small amount of gutta-percha and apply it to your wire. It will cool down after about 40 seconds and will stay on for a longer period of time than normal wax will.
3
Take medication. If you are experiencing significant pain after having your braces installed or adjusted, you may want to consider taking medication to help manage the pain. Common over-the-counter medications like acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil) are helpful when it comes to relieving pain.[16]
If you are administering medication to a child or teenager, you should avoid administering aspirin because of the risk of Reye's syndrome in children and adolescents. Reye's syndrome is a potentially-fatal condition associated with aspirin in young people.[17]
Score0 / 0
Part 3 Quiz
How can you use wax to alleviate pain?
Rub it on your teeth, not the actual braces.
Not exactly! You want to apply the wax to the actual braces, not your teeth. This way, the wax will serve as a buffer between the metal braces and your cheeks or lips. Try another answer...
Heat the wax and wind it around the wires.
Definitely not! You don't need to heat orthodontic wax before you apply it. Heating the wax can be dangerous because it could burn your fingers -- or your mouth! There’s a better option out there!
Apply directly to the brackets and wires causing you pain.
Correct! Orthodontic wax serves as a barrier between the harsh metal and the rest of your mouth. Place the wax on the brackets or wires that cause you discomfort. Read on for another quiz question.
Ask your orthodontist to apply the wax during your visit.
Not necessarily! Orthodontic wax is generally meant for home use, so your orthodontist won't usually apply it for you. However, if you have problems getting the wax to stay on, you can ask your orthodontist to heat up a small amount of gutta-percha and apply it to your wire. It will cool down and stay on for a longer period of time than normal wax will. Pick another answer!
Part 4
Caring for Your Teeth
1
Floss regularly. It may be difficult to floss with braces, but it's more important than ever when you're wearing braces. Food can get caught between your teeth or around your brackets, causing discomfort and potentially increasing the risk of infection. Certain dental products, like Floss Threaders or Superfloss, make it easy to thread floss between teeth and around the bars of your braces.[18]
Floss under the wire, then feed the floss through above the wire between each set of teeth.[19]
Form a C-shape against each tooth as you floss to ensure you remove all debris.[20]
2
Brush your teeth after each meal. Brushing is important when you have braces, and may be particularly useful when your braces are new or recently-tightened. Food debris can be painful on tender teeth and gums, and brushing after each meal and before bed can help remove that debris.[21]
Use a soft-bristle toothbrush to reduce the pain of brushing while your teeth and gums are sore.[22]
Consider using an interdental toothbrush to clean between your brackets and wires.[23]
Brush towards your tongue to ensure that food debris is properly removed. That means using downward strokes on your upper teeth and upward strokes on your lower teeth.[24]
Don't rush. Plan to spend about two to three minutes each time you brush to ensure that you cover every surface of each individual tooth.[25]
You might even need to repeat the brushing process and rinse more often than you used to. Now, your plaque is now spread onto a wider surface (your teeth and your braces).
3
Wear rubber bands as instructed. Rubber bands are often recommended to help correct a misalignment between teeth. The braces themselves will help straighten teeth, but if you have a misalignment (such as an overbite or underbite), your orthodontist may recommend that you wear special orthodontic rubber bands. The bands are worn by looping each end around a special hook on two matching brackets (usually one toward the front and one toward the back, top to bottom on each side).[26]
Rubber bands should be worn 24 hours a day, seven days a week until your orthodontist tells you otherwise.[27]
You should only take out your rubber bands to eat or brush your teeth. Otherwise they should be worn at all times, including while you sleep.[28]
Though you may be tempted to skip wearing rubber bands for a few days after each adjustment, it is best for your teeth if you adhere to your orthodontist's specific recommendations.[29]
4
Follow your appointment schedule. Your orthodontist will most likely schedule monthly checkups and tightenings. It's important to follow the schedule your orthodontist recommends to ensure that your braces are working and that your teeth are in good shape. Avoiding tightenings will only prolong the length of time you have to wear braces. You should also see your regular dentist at least once every six months to ensure that your teeth are healthy and strong, as well as that you are keeping up well with your oral hygiene.[30]
Score0 / 0
Part 4 Quiz
What is the best reason to brush your teeth after every meal when you have new or tightened braces?
To massage your teeth and gums.
Not quite! You shouldn't use a toothbrush to massage your sore teeth and gums. Instead, rinse with saline to reduce inflammation if your teeth and gums are sore. There’s a better option out there!
To remove food debris.
Nice! Food debris can be painful on tender teeth and gums, so brushing after each meal can help remove that buildup. Remember to use a soft-bristle toothbrush, which is gentler on sore teeth and gums. Read on for another quiz question.
To soften metal wires and brackets.
Not exactly! Brushing your teeth does not soften the metal wires and brackets of your braces. However, you should definitely brush your teeth regularly to keep your smile healthy!  Try again...
To avoid flossing so often.
Try again! You will still need to floss even if you brush your teeth after every meal. Floss under the wire, then feed the floss through above the wire between each set of teeth. Try another answer...
