Recognize an Unhealthy Relationship with Food

Steps
Method 1
Evaluating Your Ideas About Food
1
Notice if you think about food all the time. If you have an unhealthy relationship with food, you may think about it all the time. You may obsess about it, whether it’s what you are going to eat, when you are going to eat, what you can’t eat, how you’re going to prepare it, or anything else. Thinking about food all the time and feeling upset about it can point to a problem.[1]
For example, you may think about how you want chocolate cake, but you can’t allow yourself to have it. You may think about the fact that there is another two hours before you eat, or that if you eat the chips you really want then you will be a failure.
2
Decide if you use food to control part of your life. Many people who don’t feel in control of their life may find any way to gain control. For some, this could be through food. You may become obsessed with controlling what goes in your mouth, which can lead to unhealthy perceptions of food.[2]
For example, you may eat less or more food to gain control, which can lead to eating disorders.
3
Evaluate your feelings about food. Food is fuel for our bodies and nourishes us. You can live a healthy lifestyle and eat three meals with snacks throughout the day. You should be honest about your feelings concerning food. This can help you determine if your relationship with food is healthy or not.[3]
For example, if you think of any food, no matter how healthy or good for you, as bad, you may have a problem with food.
4
Think about how you talk about food. The way we refer to food can be telling about our relationship with food. Do you think of food in “bad” and “good” categories? This can be the start of an unhealthy relationship. Thinking that you can earn a certain food, making a list of “approved” or “guilt-free” foods, and thinking of “cheat” meals may also point to problems.[4]
For example, you may say, “I can’t eat that. It’s a bad food,” or, “I guess I could eat that, but only because it’s a cheat meal.”
Method 2
Identifying Problematic Behaviors
1
Ask yourself if you stop eating when you are satisfied. An unhealthy relationship with food is not just restricting calories. You can also develop an unhealthy relationship with food by overeating. Some people may think that they are never going to get the food again, some people may need to clean their plate of everything, or some people continue eating out of habit or anxiety.[5]
Continuing eating after you are satisfied or full and ending up feeling stuffed or sick is a sign there may be a problem.
For example, if you are satisfied, but there is food in front of you, you may eat it. You may go for a second bowl of ice cream even if you know it’s too much just because you feel you need it.
2
Decide if you stick to rigid food rules. One symptom of an unhealthy relationship with food is sticking to strict and rigid rules about eating. These rules may seem healthy, but eliminating food groups or not allowing yourself any flexibility can result in problems and unhealthy relationships.[6]
For example, rigid rules may include never eating sugar, pasta, or grains. You may go out of your way to carry food with you to avoid eating certain foods while travelling.
Due to these rigid rules, you may never allow yourself a treat or the flexibility to enjoy food in special circumstances, like while on vacation or at a special occasion dinner.
3
Figure out if you can eat without specifically structured meals. Some people don’t feel like they are in control if they do not stick to a strict food structure each day. This may be a food schedule where you eat at the same time every day, eating only certain foods, eating within a certain amount of calories, or some other meal structure.[7]
For example, you may not be able to go out to eat without knowing exactly how many calories are in the meals or how many ounces of food you are eating.
4
Notice if you go to extreme lengths to avoid certain foods. If you have an unhealthy relationship with food, you may do anything to avoid foods that you cannot control yourself around. You may avoid certain restaurants or social gatherings, you may have rituals or rules about eating a food, or you may do extreme things to destroy the food so you can’t eat it. These extreme actions point to a problematic relationship with food.[8]
For example, you may pour something unappetizing on cake to make sure you don’t eat it or ask a friend to not let you have more than a few bites of a certain food.
Method 3
Figuring Out How Food Connects to Your Self-Perception
1
Determine if you base your worth on what you eat. Many people with unhealthy relationships with food let the foods they eat influence how they feel. If they get off their eating plan, eat more calories than they think they are allowed, or splurge on food, they get upset and think they are bad people. It may also negatively affect their self-worth.[9]
If you splurge on a cheat food or if you eat more calories than you usually do, you may think that you are a bad person. You may beat yourself up about it and think that you are not worthy due to deviating from your eating structure.
You may call yourself a failure or think you are fat if you don’t stick to your food structure.
2
Decide if you are unhappy with your weight or size. Not liking how much you weigh or what size you wear can lead to food restriction and unhealthy choices. Many people base what they eat on what they look like, so they cut out food groups, skip meals, and fast, all of which robs your body of essential vitamins and nutrients.[10]
For example, do you want to "be skinny" or lose weight, and cut calories or avoid eating certain foods to accomplish this? If you are unhappy with your body, it could result in an unhealthy relationship with food.
3
Figure out if you try every fad diet you hear about. People who do not look at food as fuel and a way to nourish their body may see food as the enemy. Because of this, they may try fad diets. Yo-yo dieting can lead to a lack of essential nutrients and even more weight gain.[11]
Ask yourself how many times you have tried a new "guaranteed" diet. Evaluate your reactions when someone says they have a new diet to lose weight quickly. If you immediately think that you should try it, it could point to an unhealthy relationship with food.
4
Check how many times you weigh yourself. Constantly obsessing about your weight and getting on the scale can point to a problem with food. You connect your self-worth to your weight, and if you gain weight or haven’t lost weight, you feel terrible.
If you can’t weigh yourself, you may get anxious. If the scale moves upwards, you have a meltdown. These indicate an unhealthy relationship with food.
5
Take a look at your exercise habits. Exercise is part of a healthy lifestyle, but connecting exercise directly to food may indicate an unhealthy relationship with food. Many people punish themselves for splurging or eating foods they think are “bad” with extra exercise. Look at the way you exercise and if you have to exercise more if you eat something you think you shouldn't.[12]
For example, if you go eat ice cream with friends, you have to go run or get on the elliptical for hours to compensate.
