Start experiment.

Insert file General reflective knowledge.

Show both perspectives.

Both perspectives.

Insert file General commonsense knowledge.

Insert file Relations knowledge.

If xx is an enemy of zz and yy is an enemy of zz then xx is a friend of yy.

If xx talks to zz, then zz may predict that xx will become king.

Insert file General reflective knowledge.

Insert file Macbeth commonsense.


"Eastern" is a kind of personality trait.

"Machiavellian" is a kind of personality trait.

First perspective.


Start story titled "Macbeth".

Thane is noble.                                                                                          
England is a country.                                                                                            
Dunsinane is a castle.                                                                                            
Birnam Wood is a forest.                                                                                            
Duncan is a person.                                                                                            
Cawdor is a person.                                                                                            
Lady Macduff is a person.                                                                                            
Lady Macbeth is a person.                                                                                            
Macduff is a person.                                                                                            
Macbeth is a person.                                                                                            
Donalbain is a person.                                                                                            
Malcolm is a person.                                                                                            
Lady Macbeth is Macbeth's wife.                                                                                            
Lady Macduff is Macduff's wife.                                                                                           
 Macbeth is a thane.                                                                                            
Macduff is a thane.                                                                                            
Lady Macbeth is evil.                                                                                            
Duncan is a king.                                                                                            
Macbeth is Duncan's successor.                                                                                            
Duncan is Cawdor's enemy.                                                                                            
Macduff is Cawdor's enemy.                                                                                            
Duncan becomes happy because Macbeth defeats Cawdor.                                                                                            
Witches dance.                                                                                            
Witches have visions.                                                                                            
Macbeth talks with witches.                                                                                            
Macbeth becomes king.                                                                                           
 Witches predict that Macbeth becomes king.                                                                                            
 Witches astonish Macbeth.                                                                                           
  Duncan executes Cawdor.                                                                                            
  Macbeth becomes thane.                                                                                            
  Duncan rewards Macbeth because Duncan becomes happy.                                                                                            
  Lady Macbeth persuades that Macbeth wants to become king because Lady Macbeth is greedy.                                                                                            
Macbeth loves Lady Macbeth.                                                                                            
Macbeth wants to please Lady Macbeth.                                                                                            
Macbeth wants to become king because Lady Macbeth persuades that Macbeth wants to become king.                                                                                            
Macbeth plans to murder king.                                                                                            
Lady Macbeth plans Macbeth murdering king.                                                                                            
Macbeth plans Lady Macbeth murdering king.                                                                                            
Lady Macbeth plans to murder king.                                                                                            
Macbeth invites Duncan to dinner.                                                                                            
Duncan enters scene.                                                                                            
Duncan complements Macbeth.                                                                                           
 Duncan goes to bed.                                                                                            
Guards become drunk.                                                                                            
Guards sleep.                                                                                            
In order to murder Duncan, Macbeth murders guards; in order to murder Duncan, he enters bedroom; in order to murder Duncan, he stabs Duncan.                                                                                           
 Malcolm becomes afraid.                                                                                           
  Donalbain becomes afraid.                                                                                           
   Malcolm flees.                                                                                            
Donalbain flees.                                                                                            
For Macbeth to murder Duncan leads to Macduff flee to England.                                                                                            
In order to flee to England, Macduff rides to coast; in order to flee to it, he sails on ship.                                                                                           
 For Macduff to flee to England leads to Macbeth murder Lady Macduff.                                                                                           
  Macbeth hallucinates at dinner.                                                                                           
   Lady Macbeth says Macbeth hallucinates.                                                                                            
   Everyone leaves because Lady Macbeth tells everyone to the leave.                                                                                            
   For Macbeth to murder Duncan leads to Lady Macbeth become distraught.                                                               
   Lady Macbeth has bad dreams.                                                                           
Lady Macbeth thinks she has blood on hands.                                                                                            
Birnam Wood goes to Dunsinane.                                                                                            
Witches predict Birnam Wood goes to Dunsinane.                                                                                            
Birnam wood is a forest.                                                                                           
 Birnam wood goes to Dunsinane.                                                                                            
 Army attacks Dunsinane.                                                                                            
 Macduff curses Macbeth.                                                                                            
 Macbeth refuses to surrender.                                                                                            
 Macduff kills Macbeth.
 
 The end.



