Start experiment.

Show both perspectives.

Both perspectives.

Insert file General commonsense knowledge.

Insert file Relations knowledge.

xx is a person.

yy is a person.

zz is a place.

vv is a person.

If xx dispatches several trade ships, then xx may be worried and xx does not have any money.

If xx is ashamed of yy and yy is xx's father, then xx may run away.

If xx takes a pound of yy's flesh, then yy may bleed to death.

If xx takes a pound of yy's flesh, then xx will spill yy's blood.

Note that Shylock, Antonio, Bassanio, Nerissa, Jessica, Portia, Lorenzo, Lancelot, Balthasar, Bellario, Gratiano,  are names.

if xx does not repay money to yy and xx borrowed money from yy, then xx goes to prison.

if xx goes to prison, then xx has a trial.

is xx insults yy, then yy may hate xx.

If xx wants to marry yy and xx's father is cruel, then xx may run away to marry yy.

//If xx has a trial, and yy is a judge, then yy presides over xx's trial.

if xx is sick, then xx cannot preside over yy's trial.

if xx is supposed to preside over zz's trial and xx wants yy to preside over zz's trial, then yy may preside over zz's trial.

If xx loves yy and xx wants to impress yy, then xx may want to borrow money from zz.

if xx lends money to yy, then yy borrows money from xx.

If xx gives a ring to yy and yy gives the ring to vv, then xx may become upset.

if xx loves yy, then xx may help yy.

if xx is yy's daughter, then yy is xx's father.

If  xx borrows money from yy, then xx  has money.

If xx does not have any money, then xx cannot lend money to yy.

if xx wants to marry yy, then xx may want to impress yy.

If xx insults yy, then yy want revenge on xx.

If xx hates yy, then xx may not be lenient with yy.

if xx does not have money, then xx may borrow money from yy.

if xx is yy's daughter and yy is angry with xx, then yy may disinherit xx.

if xx is yy's daughter and xx runs away, then yy may be angry with xx.

if xx is kind, then xx may be merciful.

if xx is yy's father, then yy is heir to xx's fortune.
 
if xx decides to take a pound of yy's flesh, then xx has threatened yy's life.

If xx if yy's father, and xx disinherits yy, then yy is not the heir to xx's fortune.

If xx does not have any money and xx owes yy money, then xx may not repay money to yy.

If xx lends money to yy, then yy owes xx money.

If xx lends money to yy with no interest, then yy may believe that xx is nice.



                                                                                     
Start story titled "The Merchant of Venice".

Antonio is a person.

Shylock is a person.

Portia is a person.

Bassanio is a person.

The Duke is a person. 

Lorenzo is a person.

Lancelot is a person.

Jessica is a person.

Balthasar is a person. 

Balthasar's Clerk is a person.

Nerissa is a person.

Bellario is a person.

Gratiano is a person.

The State of Venice is an entity.



Construct a mental model for Antonio.
Construct a mental model for Bassanio.
Construct a mental model for The Duke.
Construct a mental model for Shylock.




Portia is rich.

Balthasar is Portia's friend.

Lancelot is Shylock's servant.

Jessica is Shylock's daughter.

Lorenzo is Bassanio's friend.

Bassanio is Antonio's friend.

Shylock is Jewish.




Antonio has dispatched several trade ships to various ports. 

Antonio is worried.

Bassanio owes Antonio money.

Bassanio is in love with Portia.

Bassanio wants to marry Portia.

Bassanio asks to borrow money from Antonio to impress Portia.

Antonio does not have any money.

Antonio cannot lend money to Bassanio. 

//Broadcast status.

//Pause.




Portia likes Bassanio.

Portia wants to marry Bassanio.

Shylock is cruel.

Antonio wants to borrow money from Shylock.

Shylock is doubtful of Antonio because Antonio does not have any money. 

Shylock lends money to Antonio with no interest.

Antonio lends money to Bassanio. 

Shylock is viscous.

Antonio believes Shylock has become nice.

Antonio always insults Shylock publicly because Shylock is cruel.

Shylock hates Antonio.

Shylock asks a pound of Antonio's flesh  because Shylock wants revenge on Antonio.

Bassanio advices Antonio against giving Shylock a pound of Antonio's flesh.

Antonio agrees to give Shylock a pound of Antonio's flesh because Antonio believes he will make a lot of money from his ships.

Antonio lends money to Bassanio.

//Antonio signs the bond with Shylock.

//Broadcast status.

//Pause.


Bassanio marries Portia.

Jessica is ashamed of Shylock because Shylock is cruel.

Jessica wants to marry Lorenzo.

Jessica disobeys Shylock and runs away to marry Lorenzo.

Shylock is angry with Jessica.

Shylock disinherits Jessica.

//Broadcast status.

//Pause.



Antonio receives a letter saying Antonio lost all his ships.

Antonio believes he does not have any money because he believes he lost all his ships.

Antonio does not repay money to Shylock.

Shylock wants revenge on Antonio.

//Broadcast status.

//Pause.




Portia gives Bassanio a ring.

Nerissa gives Gratiano a ring.

//Broadcast status.

//Pause.



Antonio goes to prison because he did not repay money to Shylock.

Antonio pleads for mercy. 

Shylock refuses to grant Antonio mercy.

//Portia and Jessica dress up as men.

The court conveys for Antonio's trial.

Shylock wants to take the pound of Antonio's flesh because he hates Antonio.

Bellario is a judge. 

Bellario is supposed to preside over Antonio's trial.

Balthasar's Clerk enters the court dressed as a man.

Antonio believes Balthasar is a judge.
Bassanio believes Balthasar is a judge.
The Duke believes Balthasar is a judge.
Shylock believes Balthasar is a judge.

Portia Believes Balthasar is Portia.

Bellario believes Balthasar is Portia.

Bellario cannot preside over Antonio's trial because Bellario is sick.

Bellario wants Balthasar to preside over Antonio's trial.

Balthasar enters the court.

Bassanio offers to pay more than the debt to shylock..

Shylock refuses the Payment from Bassanio.

Portia asks Shylock to take a pound of Antonio's flesh.

Portia reminds Shylock that Antonio's blood must not be spilled.

If blood is spilled, Shylock will be guilty of conspiring aganist a venetian citizen.

Shylock agrees to take the payment from Bassanio.

Shylock does not take a pound of Antonio's flesh.

Portia refuses that Bassanio pays Shylock and insists Shylock takes a pound of Antonio's flesh.

Shylock is guilty of threatening Antonio's life.

Shylock is sanctioned because Shylock is guilty.

Portia gives half of Shylock's estate to Antonio. 

Portia gives half of Shylock's estate to the state of Venice.

The Duke is merciful and gives Shylock back the other half of his estate.

The Duke spares Shylock's life.

The Duke gives Shylock a fine.

//Broadcast status.

//Pause.



The Duke tells Antonio to reward Portia for saving Antonio's life. 

Bassanio offers Balthazar money.

Balthazar wants the ring Portia gave Bassanio.

Antonio convinces Basanio to give Balthasar the ring.

Bassanio gives Balthasar Bassanio's ring.

Lorenzo gives Balthasar's Clerk Lorenzo's ring.

//Broadcast status.

//Pause.



Nerissa asks Gratiano for the ring she gave him.

Portia asks Bassanio for the ring she gave him.

Bassanio says he gave the ring to Balthasar.

Gratiano says he gave the ring to Balthasar's Clerk.

Portia tells Bassanio she is Balthasar's friend.

Partia gives Bassanio his ring.

Nerissa gives Gratiano his ring.



The end.

