Start experiment.

Set all switches to defaults.
Set Show all story elements switch to true.
Set Story aligner switch to true.
Set Learn concept button to true.
Set left panel to commentary.
Set right panel to Z Story Aligner Gallery.
Both perspectives.

xx, yy, and zz are persons.
Flightradar24 is a thing.

Show both perspectives.
// https://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-47605265

First perspective.
Start story titled "Ethiopian Airlines crash".

Last Sunday, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashed after taking off from Addis Ababa, killing all 157 people on board.

The plane was a Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft.

Transport Minister Dagmawit Moges told journalists that a preliminary report would be released within 30 days.


In both cases flight tracking data showed the aircraft's altitude had fluctuated sharply, as the planes seemed to experience erratic climbs and descents.
Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 took off from Addis Ababa Bole International Airport on the morning of 10 March, bound for Nairobi in Kenya.

Minutes into the flight, the pilot reported difficulties and asked to return.

Visibility was said to be good but air traffic monitor Flightradar24 said the plane's vertical speed was unstable after take-off.

An eyewitness at the scene told the BBC there was an intense fire as the aircraft hit the ground.

French air safety investigators examined the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder - or black boxes as they are often called - and have handed over their findings to their Ethiopian counterparts.

Investigators later identified problems with the anti-stall system, which is designed to stop a plane from pointing upwards at too high an angle where it could lose its lift.

During flight JT610, the system repeatedly forced the plane's nose down, even when the plane was not stalling - possibly due to a faulty sensor.

Pilots tried to correct this by pointing the nose higher, until the system pushed it down again. This happened more than 20 times.

Following the second crash, airlines around the world grounded their Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft.

The end.

Second perspective.
Start story titled "Indonesia Airlines crash".
Lion Air Flight 610 was a scheduled domestic flight operated by the Indonesian airline Lion Air.
On 29 October 2018, the Boeing 737 MAX 8 plane crashed into the Java Sea 12 minutes after takeoff, killing all 189 passengers and crew.
On 29 October Lion Air Flight 610 crashed after taking off from Jakarta airport, killing 189 people.
The end.
